inflation
data, labor market data, you really need
to dig under the surface to get a true
sense of what the impact is.
>> Inflation is alive and well.
>> The market is pricing that inflation
expectations have almost become
unanchored already.
>> You'll still see, we think, some pass
through of higher tariffs onto prices.
>> Inflation might run hot well through
next year. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, looking for the Fed to go
big.
I do think we could go into a series of
rate cuts here, starting with a 50 basis
point rate cut in September. The rates
are too constrictive. We should probably
be 150 175 basis points lower.
>> The Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
pushing for a jumbo rate cut pushing
bond yields lower and helping to send
stocks to another all-time high. Next up
for this market, investors looking for
one more read on the US economy. PPI and
jobless claims up next. Does the data
warrant some of the commentary that
we've heard from this administration,
which does seem at odds, from a number
of Fed officials, even Fed officials who
seem on board with the potential for
rate cuts as soon as next month, have
talked about how a 50 basis point rate
cut, I'm thinking of Mary Dailyaly,
might not be warranted because the labor
market isn't falling off a cliff. So,
what will it take for the jobs market,
for the data to signify that the that
the administration is correct and that
the Fed is that offsidiz?
>> Typically, these kind of comments don't
move markets. Typically they don't, but
they did in the last 24 hours. Why? I
think they do now because they set the
bar for incoming officials to the
administration. You're basically
effectively telling people that if you
want to be on the committee, and it's a
race to be on the committee right now,
if you want to lead it, become the Fed
chair. This is what we'd like to see.
>> And we've seen this in terms of who they
are selecting or even considering to
select to be the next Fed chair. It's
been a line of people who've come on uh
this show, other shows to talk about how
much rates should be lower. question is
maybe people agree with that from an
economic perspective. Is this the right
way to go about it to engender
confidence in longerterm inflation rates
and the longerterm perspective of a Fed
that still has a dual mandate? Yes, for
the labor market, but also with
inflation.
>> 150 sounds like a lot. I think worth
pointing out that 150 is essentially
what is priced between now and year end
26. Two this year, four more next year.
There's tons still to play for, Lisa. We
both know that. We've got another
payroll report, another CPI report.
We've got a guest a little bit later on
this morning who's talking about a
reaceleration in the US economy. The
jury is still out on what's happening
here.
>> The jury is still out with respect to
how much the economy is slowing down and
how much the labor market actually has
slowed down. The jury is still out with
how accurate the data is or isn't going
forward. And the jury is still out about
how inflationary some of the tariffs
have already been. We've talked about
the bringing forward of a lot of the
orders that a lot of companies have have
executed in order to get ahead of
tariffs. How much is that offsetting any
kind of inflationary boom that we would
be in the seeing uh seeing in the data?
In other words, how much is the data
that we've seen predictive of what we
will see in the future?
>> Limited pass through so far. That can
change again and rebalance in the months
to come. The juryy's still out. This
equity market is still at all-time
highs. Equity futures right now just
about unchanged. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with George Canas of MUFG
following backto-back all-time highs. We
speak to the former senior US
intelligence official Norman Rule as
President Trump sends a warning to
Russia and Adichave of Bank of America
as Secretary Besson urges the Fed to cut
rates and Bank of America has a warning.
Not so fast. We begin this hour with
stock steady as traders await a fresh
round of economic data. George Canas of
MUFG writing with CPI a virtual
non-event. We either drift from here or
we're greeted by some kind of exogenous
event that shakes markets out of this
complacent and sanguin slumber. George
joins us now for more. George, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Complacent. What makes it complacent?
>> This steady grind, this buy the dip,
this no questioning the price action,
steady as it goes. Um, look, you know,
your your guys intro was was fantastic.
You know, this is a interesting time
inflection point, right? We're at a
point where there's potential for
upside. There's a lot of uncertainty.
Potential uncertainty has been cleared
up. I'm much more in the camp that we
should not uh suggest that tariffs are
priced in because we just don't know
this idea that we've we've we know how
to kind of compartmentalize tariffs, but
the pass through to pricing, how much of
it was you know pulled forward activity,
how much of it is just kind of a you
know price rigidities around um you know
contracts where people can't move up
prices. There's a lot that could still
happen on the inflation front that's
ahead of us. So we let's not get ahead
of ourselves here. Um, but I think in
the in the very immediate near-term,
it's August, right? It's August. We got,
you know, two more data points with PPI,
retail sales, and really Jackson Hole
next week, right? That's going to really
set the stage until uh Labor Day when we
get back and then the fireworks I think
start.
>> Lisa mentioned it, you echoed it. We're
working through this pre-tariff
inventory. There is some evidence the
companies are absorbing. It could be for
now, might change in the future. Is
Jackson Hole too soon? Is midepptember
too soon to draw conclusions? Look,
there is there's a lot of deja vu to
this summer to last summer, but for
different factors. Even you're seeing it
in the way the technical setups of the
like the stock market. You're even
seeing it in the 2-year Treasury. We're
basically flirting with the near-term
lows that were very similar in the low,
you know, upper to high 360s,
>> 367 this morning,
>> very similar to what it was like heading
into September 2024 when the Fed
delivered what, 50 basis points, right?
So, and look, we're obviously hearing a
lot of uh, you know, clamoring for 50
basis points. You know, just as a
reminder, we were one of the few houses
last year that called for 50, but for
for the right reasons. And I I think
this time it's not as clear because of
the inflation outlook and we we have
been of the view that the jobs market
has been overestimating for quite some
time. So, I think the jobs market data
is does warrant further cuts, but at
magnitudes of 50, things have to get
progressively worse from here.
>> I'm glad that you talked about the labor
market. The mandate, the dual mandate is
the inflation side, which we've
discussed. how much are we actually able
to predict any kind of inflationary boom
going forward? But then also
demographics and whether we're measuring
the labor market correctly and of course
there's been a lot of focus on that with
BLS. This symposium's theme is labor
markets in transition to demographics,
productivity, and macroeconomic policy.
How much could they shift the
conversation in discussing a new way of
measuring just how strong this labor
market is?
>> Look, I think there's going to be an
attempt at that. there's going to be an
attempt at also reconciling what you
know um productivity AI really it's all
about AI on a go forward basis is that
deterring companies from hiring is that
truly showing up in the numbers or is
that more of an excuse so I think yeah I
think the Fed will be trying to get
their arms around what's happening on
the productivity front and you know are
we getting more uh with less workers
>> some people have pointed to the fact
that you haven't seen longerterm yields
absolutely spike you have seen yield
curves steepening but you haven't seen
some sort of response from a market
that's pricing in more front-end cuts by
necessarily selling off in mass function
the long end of the yield curve. Does
that comfort you? Does that give you a
sense that maybe this is the appropriate
policy maybe if for the wrong reasons?
Look, I think we've been stuck in the
range largely because there's a tension
in the long-term sector between those
that are much more concerned about the
fiscal outlook, those that are worried
about inflation expectations getting
unhinged that that that magnetized and
tries to pull up rates, but it hasn't
worked. We've had basically the 10ear
trading between 4 and 450, better part
for the longest time. We're at now
sub425.
If the Fed does cut rates in a much more
uh sharper fashion in larger increments
this time, unlike last year, I think all
rates will rally, including the 10ear.
And I think that's what the 10-year is
picking up on. I know it's it sounds
like uh you know, counterproductive to
like this idea of the Fed's cutting into
a potentially higher inflationary
environment. If they cut by 50, it's
because the labor market's gotten even
worse, right? So I think the NFP
crystallized this fear about what the
data is, what it's really telling us.
And if the Fed starts cutting that fast
after being in wait and see mode and
holding off this long, that means that
they're behind the curve, right?
>> You're very precise with your words. You
said the 10-year repeatedly. What about
further out along the curve, the
30-year?
>> Yeah. 30-year, I think, um, really being
driven by the supply demand globally. uh
also what's happening in the you know in
the UK market the Japanese uh
>> this is what the Treasury Secretary
talked about just yesterday yes almost
sort of outsourcing borrowing costs to
Japan to the UK to what happens in
Europe and we asked pretty directly
what's the incentive to carry on issuing
a 30-year hair and he responded by
putting pressure on the BOJ and Japanese
authorities to hike interest rates now
it's pretty rare to have a Treasury
secretary come out and tell a foreign
central bank what they should be doing
right now what did you make of that
>> I I do think that there is credence to
to it though. I mean there is this um
because bond market is a fungeable
global bond market where investors and
capital will go to the highest yields
and most liquidity. Uh and there's a
there's a large segment of foreign
investors that over the years bought
longerterm treasuries because they were
the only yield in town and now that's
not the case.
>> Yeah. But what do you make of this in
particular? It's pretty untraditional
for a Treasury Secretary to talk about
really what the Federal Reserve should
do, let alone the Bank of Japan. It's
somewhat not unprecedented but really uh
breaking with tradition. What does it
tell you about how reliant the US
Treasury market is on foreign dynamics
that are outside the Fed's control? In
other words, even if they cut basis
points uh if they cut rates by 50 basis
points in response to weakness, the long
end is tethered to something far out of
their ability to really uh to dominate.
>> Yes and no. I would say because of the
inflation expectations channel and
that's both you're hearing it from the
BOJ and from the Fed that they're
worried about inflation expectations you
know potentially getting unanchored or
staying higher than than historical
averages. I think it is all about uh
yeah central bank like look I've always
viewed the fed as the global central
bank that the dollar is still supreme
and that still drives flows capital
capital capital flows around the world
but other central banks play a role also
in trying to make sure that we don't get
this sort of inflation impulse more
broadly outside the US and feeding back
into long-term rates and then wash rinse
and repeat. So given the fact that you
think that if the Fed cuts rates by 50
basis points, it brings down all
denominations or 10 years, maybe not 30
years, as John pointed out, why aren't
you bullish? Why aren't you saying this
isn't complacency at all? This is
absolutely a justified creeping higher
in equity markets with a Fed that's well
in a position to offset any weakness.
>> My concern is all about the the
execution timing and a lot of it is
priced in. I mean the bond market is too
smart for its own good after NF for the
N the NFP basically it priced in 30
basis points in one day. I mean you're
you're your Anna Wong economist who does
really good work. We should have moved
like 10 15 basis points. We moved 30
like that for the market supposed to be
so liquid. Why did it move like double
the speed it should have moved?
>> We're back to post NFP levels this
morning on a 2-year. Back to 367.
>> Too smart for its own good. Just
apparently
>> too quick to really understand.
>> So bond traders.
>> Yeah, exactly. I think I think what
we're hearing here is they're the smart
ones and then maybe on the equity side.
You got something to say? Maybe on the
equity side something.
>> No, I'm sorry it up.
>> All right.
>> Look, I think at the at the end of the
day what it what this comes down to is
like do you ignore macro or do you not
ignore macro? The bomb people never
ignore macro and sometimes equities do.
>> You've been in this a while diplomatic.
Thank you, sir. George there of MUFG.
More alltime highs on the S&P 500. It is
rare to hear that from a Treasury
Secretary, but he is somewhat uniquely
qualified to talk about global bond
markets. That's the issue. I think it's
very compromising though. This really
compromises the BOJ. Now, what happens
if they come out and say, "Yeah, sure.
We'll start hiking." And people just
say, "Are you being told by US
authorities to do this? Is that why
you're doing this?"
>> Some people are saying this actually
will make it harder for them to hike
rates in the near term. There's also a
question about whether this really
underscores the weak dollar policy. Is
this a US administration that wants a
weaker dollar for the forest rest of the
year in order to juice some of the
competitive advantage that US companies
have?
>> Yen stronger this morning. Dollar yen
down to 14662 a move of about.5%. That's
the price action. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara Arnard.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Sticking with the BOJ. The
Japanese yen is strength strengthening
against the dollar this morning while
JGB yields are ticking higher as traders
woke up to Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson's comments. The BOJ is behind the
curve. Bessant telling us you on
surveillance yesterday. The the Japanese
central bank needs to get their
inflation problem under control.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump warned
he would impose very severe consequences
if Vladimir Putin does not agree to a
ceasefire with Ukraine. Trump is set to
meet with Putin tomorrow in Anchorage,
Alaska. He said he hoped to use the
meeting to set up a quick second meeting
with Putin and Ukraine President
Vladimir Zalinski. And we're learning
more on how Apple is trying to
prioritize AI, sources telling us here
at Bloomberg. The company is working on
a slate of new devices, including
robots, a lifelike Siri, and home
security cameras. In addition to the
home devices, Apple is preparing thinner
and redesigned iPhones for release this
year. It also hopes to introduce smart
glasses and a 20-year anniversary
iPhone. That's your brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yihara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
President Trump sends a warning.
>> Will Russia face any consequences if
Vladimir Putin does not agree to stop
the war after your meeting on Friday?
>> Yes, they will. Yeah.
>> What will consequences?
>> There will be sanctions, tariffs.
>> There will be very severe consequences.
That conversation up next with the
former senior US intelligence official
Norman Rule live from New York City this
morning. Good morning
[Music]
This is a market hungry for more
economic data later this morning. It'll
get it. 8:30 Eastern time. A read on
inflation with PPI. A read on the jobs
market. Look out for jobless claims at
8:30 Eastern later on this morning.
About 2 hours away. In the equity
market, slightly negative, pulling back
from two days of gains on the S&P 500.
Down by not even a tenth of 1% on the
S&P. on the NASDAQ 100 negative by just
0.08%.
And Sven this morning, President Trump
sends a warning.
>> Will Russia face any consequences if
Vladimir Putin does not agree to stop
the war after your meeting on Friday?
>> Yes, they will. Yeah.
>> What will consequences?
>> There will be sanctions, tariffs.
>> There will be very severe consequences.
I would say the second meeting, if the
first one goes okay, we'll have a quick
second one. I would like to do it almost
immediately and we'll have a quick
second meeting between President Putin
and President Zalinski. Here's the
latest this morning. President Trump
issuing a warning to Russian President
Vladimir Putin following a call with
European leaders. Trump threatening
quote very severe consequences if Putin
does not agree to a ceasefire in
Ukraine. Bloomberg's Pier Skolamoski
joins us now for more. Pier, welcome to
the program. Sir, the president had a
call with European leaders. I believe he
called it a 10. What's your
understanding of what was discussed on
that call?
>> Hi. So indeed the call happened and the
Europeans came out of this cautiously
optimistic. So what they heard from from
Trump officially and unofficially during
the call or what we heard from our
sources and also the leaders as they
spoke afterwards is that first of all
they obviously were keen to to hear this
warning about severe con very severe
consequences against Russia which
probably means secondary sanctions of
some kind or tariffs. Uh but also what
was important is that they heard that
Trump is is he told the Europeans that
he he wants to focus on getting
ceasefire done. That's the the first
thing uh during the meeting with with
Putin. Um and obviously he spoke about a
quick um trilateral summit with that
would also involved Zalinski. Um he also
sort of downplayed expectations for for
a full peace deal just being done with
with with Putin on on that meet during
that meeting in Alaska. So um and and
you know the one important thing that
that Europeans were keen to hear is that
um apparently Trump basically said he
gave them aurances that he's not going
to negotiate territories with Putin
which was something that really caused a
lot of uh serious alarm among European
leaders among also with Zalinski because
obviously not being at the table there
and and um discussion about the
so-called land swaps was a was a serious
concern. So overall um positive take but
obviously anything can happen. Um Trump
is is um the the previous talks between
Putin and and Trump went different
directions. So um yeah they're all
waiting for that one.
>> I imagine this is something European
leaders are still nervous about. P Thank
you sir. At least there is some talk of
a joint news conference between the two
leaders. So we could see some real
fireworks over the weekend
>> especially uh depending on how it is
received by the Europeans. A real
question is President Trump downplaying
it or is he looking for a ceasefire with
actual conditions? What does that look
like given the red line that's been
drawn?
>> To build on that conversation, the
former senior US intelligence official
Norman Rule joins us now for more.
Norman, welcome back to the program,
sir. Is the president in a position to
negotiate on behalf of the Ukrainians?
>> Good morning. He is not in a position to
negotiate on behalf of the Ukrainians.
Uh the Ukrainian president has made that
clear and the Europeans have done
everything they can to send a unified
message that uh that Ukrainian territory
is not something the president can uh
offer uh in his talks. And in fairness,
the president has stated that he is not
uh uh going to offer Ukrainian territory
to the Russians and indeed will be doing
what he can to uh acquire uh Ukrainian
territory that Russia has occupied to
return back to uh Ukraine itself. The
question is how exactly does he do this?
And indeed in terms of the severe
consequences that he would apply to
Russia, that in itself requires some
caution because to do that requires
secondary sanctions on China and India.
And as Secretary Bessant has stated,
that would require European cooperation
and Europe has not been very
enthusiastic about uh cooperation in
that regard in the past.
>> Norman, there's a lot to unpack there. I
want to get into the ceasefire agreement
that President Trump has talked about as
a threshold to cross in this meeting
tomorrow. What would that look like
given the previous ceasefire agreements
that already have been made and broken?
>> A ceasefire agreement is unlikely. Uh
President Putin has violated most of
those agreements and right now we're
watching each side do what they can to
demonstrate strength. Uh the Russians
are conducting uh um a series of ground
operations that are allowing them to
make short sharp advances uh in the
Donbas. The Ukrainians are conducting
drone attacks on Russian energy
facilities uh uh which are important
given that they Russia's economy is
contracting further per the IM IMF.
We'll have only.9% GDP growth this year.
Uh so we're we're unlikely to see uh a
ceasefire take place unless each side is
convinced that uh a peace deal is uh
likely and again we have no evidence uh
for this uh in the near term. This said
the president is going to be doing his
best to achieve that and we're likely to
see one-on-one meetings with President
Putin and President Trump. Uh the
Europeans will be concerned about that.
uh they have demonstrated that concern
and the president uh uh uh has uh uh
demonstrated in the past that his
relationship with Putin is very personal
and he sees that personal relationship
as where his strength lies in achieving
an agreement.
>> There's a question, Norman, about
whether the president really has as much
leverage as he could if he's going into
this without the Europeans agreeing to
helping to enforce the secondary
sanctions. Do you think that this is
premature? Do you think that this is a
good timing on the part of President
Trump to go at this alone given the lack
of cooperation on some of the more
punitive parts?
>> Well, to be clear, I'm not sure that
Europeans are ever going to be
enthusiastic about supporting secondary
sanctions on China and and India. Uh and
at the same time, uh Russia's sanction
Russia's economy continues to contract.
uh it has contracted the IMF has reduced
its projections for GDP from 1.5% to.9%
for this year and next year. 40% of
Russia's economy is now devoted to
military spending. It's likely to remain
that way for the future and Russia is
losing a vast amount of personnel every
day. The president sees this. Uh I would
expect that his uh uh private uh
intelligence and economic briefings show
a dire picture for the Russian economy
and he probably sees this as his uh
lever over Vladimir Putin. So although
Putin will come in playing a strong hand
trying to show battlefield gains, trying
to show that he's going to win this war,
I think the president's position is
going to be look, you're a big country,
an aging population. You've got great
resources. You could be doing great
things in the world, but you're driving
your country into the ground, and the
best way for you to save your country's
future is to end this conflict. Uh, I
think that's probably going to be the
tactic the president may may consider.
>> No, do you think that tactic will work?
>> I doubt it. I think Vladimir Putin is a
map changer. He is committed to uh
changing uh the uh uh the uh rule of
Russia, to restoring uh the uh Russian
Empire, the Soviet Empire. He doesn't
believe Ukraine should exist as a
country. I think he's committed to the
maximalist gains. Uh he may offer some
sort of territorial concessions to to
restrain sanctions. He may try to delay
further sanctions. Uh we also have arms
talks that uh that Vladimir Putin may
hold out and and nuclear talks are
something that we we no longer raise in
our discussions but are t tremendously
important. Uh and I think Vladimir Putin
may hold out arms nuclear talks and
Arctic cooperation as some way to uh uh
continue engagement with the US. That
may complicate the relationship and
again you don't hear nuclear talks and
Arctic cooperation as something of great
uh importance for Europe but they are of
importance to the United States uh for
our national security.
>> Norm what I hear from you is this
doesn't end without compromising the
integrity of Ukrainian territory. Now, I
just wonder with that in mind, Norm, how
you think this does end or will it end?
And if this can just continue for years
on end,
>> this this ends when the Ukrainians
decide it ends. That's not a decision
the American American government can
make. This ends when the Russians decide
it ends. Uh again, that's not a decision
the Americans can necessarily make. uh
uh uh uh but at at a at a at a at a
certain point each that any deal that
does come about in the end is probably
going to leave each side unhappy. And
the US government has communicated on a
number of occasions that if there are
going to be territorial uh decisions
made in the end as part of a peace
agreement, it probably would involve
concessions on each side that will leave
each side unhappy. Uh that's a tough
thing to say and obviously Ukrainians
who have given blood are going to be
unhappy to hear that. But that has been
a previously stated US position, but
again that's a Ukrainian decision to
make and it's not a decision they're
going to make at present and it's a
decision they won't make unless they're
at the table.
>> Norm thank you sir. Appreciate your
thoughts. The former senior US
intelligence official Norman Ro with
some sobering words there on the future
of that war. Up next, Bloomberg Tra
Brenda Murray as the White House sets up
a new model for US sales to China.
[Music]
Back-to-back all-time highs on the S&P
500 in yesterday's session just about
squeezing out a second day of gains on a
benchmark state side. This morning,
pulling back slightly. We're down by
almost a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ 100, down by 0.08. 08, call it
0.09. We've seen this outperformance in
the Russell recently. Small cap starting
to perform this morning just a little
bit softer. We'll come back to that
story later. We're down by 0.3%. If you
switch up the board and turn to the bond
market, the whole curve yesterday 2's
out to 30, shifting lower as we start to
lock in rate cuts starting in September.
We're back down to the post payrolls
lows with 367 at the front end of the
curve. At the longer end of the curve,
the 10-year maturity played a part as
well. It's down another two this
morning. We're back down to 421.
>> And George Pulva said that this time
around, if the Fed were to cut by 50
basis points next month, that would
actually pull the whole yield curve
lower versus what we saw last year when
the Fed cut by 100 basis points. The
long end of the yield curve sold off,
yields went higher, not lower. Why?
Because there is real weakness in the
labor market that the that the 50 basis
point cut would be in response to, which
may be the reason why Fed officials
might not want to go 50 because it would
send that signal.
>> Nailed it. You're going 50 for all the
wrong reasons. You're going 50 because
you're going to see a repeat of the
payrolls data from two Fridays ago in
early September. That's the last thing
you want to see. This Fed go 50 because
payrolls are falling apart.
>> Which raises a question, is that
actually a reason for equities to rally
if the Fed is cutting for being behind
the curve and the labor market already
seeing a greater degree of
deterioration?
>> You know, Lisa, please you bring that up
because I wonder if the inflation data
was a reason for the equity market to
rally either. If you think about what
all the economists said on Wall Street,
they all said the same thing. This is
evidence of companies eating it on
margin. The Treasury Secretary yesterday
said this about that. He said there were
some margins that got very fat during CO
and we've seen a return to precoid
margins. Is that a good story for parts
of this equity market? Maybe away from
tech, but for the rest of the stock
market doesn't scream a great story.
>> If you're a stock investor, you want
those margins to stay fat because
ultimately it's going to come out of
your bottom line. You hear the likes of
Alpha Beauty talking about $50 million
on an annualized basis. Caterpillar the
impact being about $350 million. Colgate
$75 million. Kimberly Carter, you could
just go down the list. I was gathering a
list yesterday. And there's a real
question here. Have people adequately
appreciated that hit to their bottom
line if they are holding the equity of
those companies.
>> Equities this morning still doing okay,
just about unchanged on the S&P 500 with
three hours away from the opening bell.
Let's get you some morning movers and
cross over to Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Well, the animal spirits are
back. IPOs are back, at least when it
comes to crypto companies. The crypto
exchange bullish, debuting yesterday to
an 84% gain. It doubled its price at
various points of its IPO price. Here we
have another gain pre-market. Shares are
up just under 16%. It also probably
helped them. That yesterday coincided
with another all-time high in Bitcoin,
largely driven by the adoption of
Bitcoin by so-called Bitcoin Treasury
companies, which by the way, bullish is
one. So again those shares continue
higher. Now to the downside this morning
we had Cisco earnings yesterday which
provides a lot of AI services and this
is the thing that we keep seeing with
companies. They gave a forecast and it
was inline and inline wasn't good
enough. So shares are down 1.1% but
otherwise they said that the demand for
again their AI services were really
strong. They also said that they see
government spending on their resources
coming back to growth in this next
fiscal year despite some of the
weakness. more recently in those
Trumpdriven cuts to the federal
government. Finally, rounding things out
with Birkenstocks. You guys were just
talking about the idea that companies
are taking a hit to their margin. Here
is a company that is not. They were
outright talking about on their earnings
the fact that they are raising prices.
They have to do so because Birkenstocks
are made in Germany. But Williams
Trading, for example, calling this one
of the hot brands. So, if you're a hot
brand, apparently you can raise prices.
They said prices were higher by in the
mid singledigit percentage points to
account for tariffs. So those shares go
up 2%. John,
>> I like to be optimistic, Danny. To have
faith in humanity. Got a lot of faith in
humanity. Maybe it's misplaced. I don't
know. But when I see Birkenstock, I
start to wonder. Pricing power over at
Birkensto.
>> Oh my goodness. You obviously have never
had a pair.
>> Questioning my faith.
>> I just don't appreciate the style. That
doesn't mean that other people cannot
appreciate the style. It's very
convenient. A lot of people wear them
with socks.
>> With sock. That's the thing that kills
me.
>> And I knew that you were going to I I
think it would look good on you. I think
that skinny skinny pants that just
visually offensive right under the knee
visually offensive.
>> Not so much. Not going to not going to
see that in John Bland anytime.
>> Absolutely not. I knew you were thinking
this.
>> You'll never see me looking like that.
>> Good for Birkenstock.
>> Good for them. And our radio this
morning, President Trump sending a
warning to the Russian President
Vladimir Putin out of their meeting
tomorrow saying he will impose very
severe consequences if Putin doesn't
agree to a ceasefire agreement with
Ukraine. So, there are a lot of
questions here and we were talking to
Norman Rule just moments ago and he was
talking about how he doesn't see it
likely that there would be a ceasefire
agreement simply because there has been
one in the past and it's been broken in
short order. A question here, how
serious the red lines are, how much they
haven't really been implemented yet. And
then from a market consequence
standpoint, has the market priced in
some sort of easing intentions with oil
prices coming down and could that
reverse if you don't get any
deliverables from this meeting? Hearing
from Norman Rule, it's going to be very
hard to deliver anything. What we just
heard from Norman Rule, former senior US
intelligence official, basically came on
the program 5 minutes ago and said, "You
don't get a deal without questioning the
integrity of the territory of Ukraine."
Now, I don't see how you make that deal
with that in mind. And I also wonder
what the president could actually say to
Vladimir Putin at this point. I don't
know what the carrot could be on some
small trade issues. What can the carrot
be when you don't seem to have the
Ukrainian president alongside you on
what you can offer over the weekend?
>> I spent a lot of time over the past few
months listening to Peter the Great this
episode, a series of episodes on the
rest is history, a great podcast, by the
way. I'm just going to put that plug in.
It's it's British. You'll like it. Um
but talking about sort of this knee-jerk
want to gain land and this belief in
sort of uh the autonomy but also this
sort of police state of Russia that
Vladimir Putin is trying to replicate
and it doesn't seem like this is
something that can be agreed to very
easily.
>> Amie on the road today so you'll see AMH
covering this meeting over the weekend
in Alaska. So look out for headlines
from the team here at Bloomberg. Want to
turn to the latest from the Federal
Reserve. The Atlanta Fed President
Rafael Bostik saying he still expects
one rate cut this year if the labor
market stays solid. Chicago Fed
President Austin Goulsby also speaking
yesterday saying the central bank's
meetings this fall will be live. A range
of speakers in the last 24 hours
including Mary Daly of the San Francisco
Fed to the Journal.
>> Yeah, she was speaking to the journal in
an interview where she said she doesn't
see the need to go by 50 basis points
and that that would actually send the
wrong message to markets that there
would be a need and that uh the Federal
Reserve was far behind the curve. She
doesn't see it that way. how she does
see it is that any kind of move seems to
be in the wrong direction with respect
to deterioration in the labor market and
that she uh supports some sort of
gradual easing back to neutral which a
lot of people think is around 3 and
a.5%. It is a very different message
than the one put being put forward by
Scott Bessie.
>> I don't see a path for the Federal
Reserve to come out of 2025 looking good
and I'll give you an example as to why.
Let's go with the margin story at
corporate America right now. That can
break two ways. either they're going to
pass it on to consumers or at some point
they start thinking about how to manage
costs. How do you manage costs? You
start pulling back on labor. So you get
to September and you've got to decide
what is the lesser evil here. If we see
a dual mandate in conflict, there's no
winning for this Federal Reserve. You've
got to pick one and then you get blamed
for missing the other one
>> and end up with something that could
look like an inflationary expectation
that starts building if you do cut too
much or a labor market that
deteriorates. They can't look good
anyway because they have a president who
keeps job owning them and bringing
people in who uh will change the way
they do things. So, I don't think
looking good is their priority here.
Getting it right though is a real
question. How do you get it right at
such a precarious and unknown moment?
>> Looking credible seems to be the
ultimate objective of this Federal
Reserve at the moment. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson also had some
things to say about the Bank of Japan
falling behind the curve on inflation,
adding that he expects the central bank
to hike interest rates. his comments
coming as the BOJ continues to have one
of the lowest policy rates among major
economies. This matters not just for
borrowing costs in Japan, but for
borrowing costs elsewhere.
>> Japanese buyers were some of the biggest
buyer base for US treasuries and frankly
investment grade bonds for a very long
time because there was no competition at
home. If they put their money in
Japanese uh government bonds, they would
lose money. It was not a market. So,
they came to the United States. If you
have higher yields in Japan, that will
keep them there, but it also will mean
that yields will be higher here because
ultimately that means that you don't
have the buyers in the United States. It
is a competitive international
landscape. I do wonder though, what is
Scott Besson's motivation in talking
about this with you and Emry yesterday.
Is it to get them to raise rates?
Because if that's the case, it kind of
compromises them. Is it to get the
dollar weaker or is it just to sort of
give a nod to the fact that the Fed
doesn't have full control over global
bond yields?
>> Well, I concede I brought it up. So,
let's talk about what I brought up. The
reason I brought this up is that
ultimately you've seen some leakage at
the very long end of the curve. And at
the very long end of the curve, we've
seen high yields. Not just because of
what's happened domestically in America,
but I think more so what's happening
internationally in Europe, in places
like Germany where they're issuing more
debt to try and stimulate the economy in
the UK when they've got their own
problems and in places like Japan where
they've failed to put a lid on
inflation. And I think that's why you're
starting to see the Treasury Secretary
engage with the question just a little
bit more because he understands there's
some issues here domestically that are
out of our control that maybe foreign
officials can do something about and
maybe they will in the coming months.
>> Well, and it also raises a question of
how much the US is going to be stuck
with higher inflation because of the
global inflation picture, not just the
United States. It is though ironic
because in the United States we're
cheering a CPI print that comes in at
2.7%. as sort of achieving the uh
perspective that we were looking for and
causing the Fed to be able to cut rates
by 150 basis points and yet the mandate
I do believe the target is still 2% for
the Federal Reserve.
>> The words of the Treasury Secretary
moving the FX market dollar yen down to
14647.
Let's stick with that conversation with
Secretary Bessant. The White House
testing a new model for US sales to
China.
>> This is a very unique solution allows
Nvidia to expand into China. It can make
Nvidia chips the uh bellweather for
Chinese technology and then the US
taxpayer gets a share of that. We could
see it in other industries over time. I
think you know right now uh this is
unique but you now now that we have the
model and the the beta test why not
expand it.
>> Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
Brendan Murray. Brendan welcome to the
program. this is a very unique
situation. And then he goes on to say it
might not be very unique in the future.
Brendan, how could this change global
trade and the interaction between US
companies and foreign markets?
Yeah, I think this speaks to a couple of
things. The first being uh that
President Trump is uh if you will making
some of this stuff as he goes along. Uh
Secretary Bessant uh credited the
president with coming up with this idea,
this 15% for Nvidia. Uh and it it it
seems that uh the second reason is
basically uh the president really wants
to do a deal with Xiinping and he's
throwing them this concession to say you
want some of our advanced chips, we'll
give you some. They're not the most
advanced but but uh we'll we'll meet you
uh on one of your demands. Uh and the
third reason is as Bess said uh that
they really need the revenue. Uh these
tariffs are are under court scrutiny at
the moment. Uh it's not clear that they
will survive. uh passed the court
decision. It's probably going to go to
the Supreme Court. So, they need this
revenue uh and they need uh they and
they're going to try to get it any way
they can.
>> You said that they need this revenue
because of the court challenges. How
much do you think that that's actually a
part of this to keep some sort of money
coming in even if there is some sort of
court injunction on the existing
tariffs?
Yeah, I mean I think it's it just fits
with the pattern of President Trump.
Anywhere he sees uh a a company or
constituency that really wants
something, uh he he sees a revenue
opportunity. And so uh you can say, you
know, you could say the same thing about
the uh the so-called reciprocal tariffs.
He says, you know, everybody wants a
piece of the American consumer. Uh
you're going to have to pay up for it.
So I just think he's uh he's using that
sort of business acumen uh to do it. And
you know, we've seen some uh he his goal
of reshoring. We saw a big uh uh uh
manufacturer GE appliances uh announced
a big investment in the US yesterday. Uh
but it also happens to be a
Chinese-owned company that's investing.
And so there are some trade-offs uh that
the administration is going to have to
make.
>> And Brenda, just finally, you're sitting
in London. What's the UK's response to
this? What are the Europeans doing about
all of this as they look at this play
out and see these innovative ways of
coming up with new ways to raise money?
How are they thinking about this
situation?
>> Well, I would say, you know, to
Secretary Besson's point about uh Japan,
the Bank of Japan being behind the
curve, I I would imagine that some
Japanese officials would say uh that the
Trump administration is behind the curve
on on delivering the actual fine print
of these deals that they're trying to
negotiate. The UK still doesn't have
clarity on steel. The EU is still
waiting for its its uh the the the
actual uh executive order to to carry
out uh the 15% auto tariffs that it's
that it was promised. It's it at the
moment it's paying the 25% still. Same
with Japan. Same with Korea. So uh these
countries that uh think that they got a
deal with the administration are are
paying those higher sectoral tariffs at
the moment and waiting for uh the
followup uh from from those negotiations
that took took place two or three weeks
ago.
>> Interesting final point. Brendan, we got
to leave it there. Appreciate your time.
Brenda Murray there on trade and the
effort to do a whole lot more to raise
money here in the United States.
>> How do you get clarity if you're a
trading partner if this is a type of
bespoke deal? Wasn't this supposed to be
a national security issue? Where does
national security begin? and raising
revenue pick up.
>> It's not a national security issue
anymore. We were told yesterday just to
confirm.
>> Well, I guess some people say the H20
chip is 5 years behind where you are in
terms of the B200 or whatever the latest
chip is that people are selling in the
United States. That said, it sort of is
a fungeable measure that we're looking
at to really understand what's allowed
and what isn't.
>> To your point, we're certainly blurring
the lines pretty quickly on this side of
the world. Equity futures on the S&P, if
you're just tuning in, we're doing okay.
back-to-back all-time highs on the S&P
500, just a little bit softer, negative
by 0.06%
on the S&P. With a look at our top
stories worldwide with our Bloomberg
brief, let's cross over to Yhara for
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The UK economy grew at a
faster pace than expected in the second
quarter. GDP rose 3/10en of a percent in
the three months ending in June,
maintaining positive growth for the
third straight quarter. That growth was
led by services while construction also
increased but production did fell did
fall slightly. Meanwhile, Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant has a has been
granted an extension to fully divest all
his assets in compliance with an ethics
agreement. Bessant said the remaining
assets represent 4% of his required
divestatures and that much of them are
farmland. According to documents
reviewed by Bloomberg, Bessant was given
until December 15th to complete the
divesture
and deer shares are falling nearly 6% in
the pre-market after the tractor maker
trimmed its fullear outlook. The results
indicate that farmers are holding back
on spending with grain prices under
pressure. The sector has been expected
to bottom out this year, but uncertain
crop demand amid President Trump's trade
wars is throwing that timeline into
question. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, looking for the Fed
to go big.
>> I do think we could go into a series of
rate cuts here, starting with a 50 basis
point rate cut in September. The rates
are too constrictive. We should probably
be 150 175 basis points lower.
>> That conversation up next with Adicha of
Bank of America live from New York City.
This is Bloom.
[Music]
Let's check out the market. Alltime
highs at a close yesterday. Futures
pulling back not even a tenth of 1%. No
drama there. That's the stock market. In
the bond market, the 2-year yield at the
lowest level since the end of April,
down for three consecutive days. We're
back to 367 at the front end of the
curve. And the Savannah this morning
looking for the Fed to go big.
>> We could have had rate cuts in June and
July. So, that tells me that there's a
very good chance of a 50 basis point
rate cut. I do think we could go into a
series of rate cuts here starting with a
50 basis point rate cut in September.
The rates are too constrictive. If if
you look at any model that the you know
if if you we we should probably be 150
175 basis points lower.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson making
the case for a jumbo rate cut next
month. Adich Bank of America doesn't
agree, writing, "Markets are pricing
almost a 90% chance of a 25 basis point
cut in September, but we aren't yet
convinced in part because we think the
economy might be reacelerating." Adi
joins us now for more. Adich, good
morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> You've got a good story to tell about
this US economy. So, let's spend some
time on it. Why do you believe we could
be seeing a reaceleration in the months
to come?
>> Well, it's partly what we're seeing in
our internal card data. So, we look for
a pretty solid retail sales sprint
tomorrow, slightly above consensus. And
what we learned on Tuesday is that that
won't be largely because of tariffs as
it was in June, right? So, you'll see a
pick up in rail spending. You're seeing
strong auto sales for July. Air travel,
air travel really picked up in July and
it's continued into August and our car
data have actually accelerated in the
first two weeks of August. So there's
there's a few things going on there that
suggested at least the consumer is
picking up here.
>> And this is one reason why people
shrugged off the higher than expected
core CPI that we got on Tuesday because
it was largely due to airfare is people
are flying more and prices are going up
and people said that's a very volatile
indicator. Can this be expansion without
inflation? Can this be acceleration
without some sort of material price
shock that does continue?
>> There doesn't need to be a huge pickup
in inflation. But the point that we've
been making is that even X of the tariff
shock, we can debate the tariff shock
endlessly, but even X of that, I think
the core PC, headline PC probably stuck
around 2 and a.5%. And that's the
concern that we have for Fed policy. We
think they're meaningfully away from
target and even further away in the
other direction than they were before
the pandemic when they were obviously
very concerned about the undershoot.
>> Is that wrong? I mean, is this maybe the
appropriate inflation rate that we
should be targeting? is 2 and a.5%. And
shouldn't the Fed maybe allow that to be
the case? If that means a healthy labor
market and an economy that keeps on
going,
>> that's reasonable, but then they'd lose
credibility around their 2% target. So,
if they want to change their target,
that's fine. I think it's a little bit
dangerous to change your target when you
haven't hit the target yet because then
it becomes a slippery slope. But if they
do that, then we'll adjust our forecasts
accordingly.
>> That's your take on inflation. I want to
build on your take on the labor market.
We've seen a real step down in payroll
growth. Have we seen a move in slack?
Have we increased slack with that step
down in payrolls growth? Because I think
that's the more important question for
this Federal Reserve.
>> That's what's really interesting and I
think the answer is not entirely
obvious. The unemployment rate has been
rangebound for a year. The ratio of
vacancies to unemployed workers has
basically been rangebound for a year. So
it is possible that a lot of this
slowdown is because of labor supply
rather than labor demand. And consistent
with this idea, what you're seeing in
wage inflation, total income growth is
actually quite solid. And that's really
important because what happens typically
in a downturn is that you get this
snowballing between job losses and slow
and therefore lower income growth and
then slower consumer spending. But if
income growth's holding up, then you
might not get that knock-on effect on
job losses.
>> Do you think we're confusing a cyclical
term with a structural shift? Then is
that ultimately the source of confusion
at the moment?
>> Yes. And that's what can happen with
supply shocks. We're being hit by so
many supply shocks right now that it
makes forecasting very difficult. And we
think folks like, let's say, Governor
Waller are not putting enough focus on
the labor supply shock. So the slowdown
in the labor market could just be a
supply story. And as you say, slack
hasn't really increased.
>> It's very hard to understand this labor
market. It's even harder when there are
questions about the integrity of the
data in terms of just the responses to
surveys and recently the firing of the
head of the BL BLS, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. What are you looking at in
terms of secondary and tertiary sources
of data to fortify your view in absence
maybe of said labor market report that
we get every month?
>> Right. So on the labor market, you could
look at jobless claims. I think that's
that's a super useful indicator. You
could look at um the the uh you you
could even look at just consumer
spending data, right? Again, going back
to our BAC card data. You see that live
and it's very unlikely that folks are
going to keep spending on discretionary
activities if the labor market is
holding up. And then you could also look
at ADP.
>> Typically, it would be hard to make an
argument that the economy has fallen off
a cliff with jobless claims expected to
come in at 225 later on this morning.
225 historically exceptionally low.
Well, this is the sort of surprising
aspect of this. When people look at
jobless claims, it's supposed to be the
most real-time indicator and yet it's
been basically rangebound or flat for a
number of years now
>> with an expanding labor market. So,
we've been looking at the level of
jobless claims and comparing that to
where they were, you know, 10, 20 years
ago. But if you scale that to the labor
market, claims are actually
extraordinarily low. There are some
structural reasons for that. folks are
doing gig jobs instead of applying for
claims. But that's actually good for the
labor market, right? It's good for the
economy.
>> Adicha, appreciate your take.
Constructive view on the US economy.
Adicha B there of Bank of America still
looking I believe for no cuts this year.
Is that right?
>> That's right.
>> No cuts for 2025 and looking for a step
up in economic activity.
>> Yeah. For all the right reasons to your
point that you just said there that
essentially the economy is doing just
fine in his view going forward even with
rates where they are. So this is the
competing view. Can you have an economy
that's doing just fine and still justify
50 to 75 basis points of rate cuts like
the market is expecting or is there a
dissonance that's not getting priced in
either with respect to the rates picture
or the equities picture?
>> Market wants its cake and wants to eat
it too basically right wants the rate
cuts that come with the kind of
deceleration in the economy that is
usually associated with a market that's
not doing well. This administration
wants its cake. It wants to eat it too.
And so the question is, will policy
makers agree with the economic rationale
behind that?
>> Equities doing all right this morning.
Just about unchanged on the S&P,
slightly softer. Up next, we'll catch up
with Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research.
We'll speak to Ed Mills of Raymond
James, the former World Bank president,
David Malpass, and Son Desai of Franklin
Templeton. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
[Music]
What we've got is a tortoise of an
economy and a hair of a market.
>> There's a lot of optimism baked in.
>> Global equity markets are overvalued.
>> It's all about large caps and tech.
>> If the market continues to do well and
momentum is on the market side, I think
the pain trade is still probably higher.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now in your
equity market. Your scores look like
this. We're down by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P following backto-back all-time highs
on the benchmark state side. On the
NASDAQ, we're down about a tenth of 1%.
Also, a series of days now. Two
outperformance on the Russell. The small
caps making a comeback. We're down a
third of 1% this morning. In the bond
market, switch on the board. 2-year, 10
year, 30-year. Focus on the front end of
the curve. 2-year yields back to levels
we have not seen since late April.
36679.
We're down another, let's call it a
basis point this morning as we start to
lock in some rate cuts.
>> Yeah. On the heels of the conversation
that you and Edmury had yesterday with
Scott Besson, Treasury Secretary,
calling for a 50 basis point rate cut
next month, followed by additional rate
cuts down 150 to 175 basis points below
where we are currently for the Fed funds
rate raises a question. Is the Treasury
Department, Scott Bessett, someone who's
known the markets for a very long time,
seeing something in the labor market
that really is concerning and prompts
the Fed to play catchup or is this
something that is trying to put forward
a political message to whoever will come
in who he will select to the Federal
Reserve?
>> Can I say both cuz it feels like both.
We might get something different though.
Adich, Bank of America was on the
program just moments ago. Let's just
pick out the data points we get later
this morning. 8:30 Eastern PPI jobless
claims jobless claims at the moment 226
we're looking for 225 this morning and
Adichave is basically saying this labor
market is better than you think it is
one and two we're looking at the credit
card data the card data at Bank of
America and we're seeing a step up in
spending and we're looking for a
reaceleration in the US economy
>> yeah in some of the most discretionary
parts of the economy talking about
things like airline spending which has
been one of the components of CPI that
came in hotter than expected in
Tuesday's report. A real question here
also about those initial jobless claims
that we're going to get in about 90
minutes time. We've been talking about
how they haven't really moved. They've
remained around 220 220,000. Adich's
point, the overall labor base has
expanded so much that that's an even
lower number than it has been
traditionally. Are we measuring the
labor market correctly either to the
upside with some sort of reaceleration
or to the downside akin to what we saw
in the labor market report two Fridays
ago? His basic message is you can have a
step down in payrolls growth without an
increase in slack. That just because
you're seeing this step down in payrolls
growth, it doesn't mean the labor
market's falling off a cliff. In fact,
he's got very different views on that.
What I find amazing about this moment is
we've actually got some real debate on
Wall Street away from the market. The
economics debate at the moment can break
either way, which I think begs the
question, is the jury still out without
a doubt? Can you draw firm conclusions
by the time you get to Jackson Hole? Can
you draw firm conclusions by the time
you get to midepptember, even with an
extra CPI, an extra payroll spread?
>> And to build on your point, can you have
your cake and eat it too? Can you have a
Federal Reserve that cuts rates by as
much as this administration says that
they should be while keeping inflation
expectations under control and while
continuing to allow the economy to
expand at a decent pace? Is that a
feasible goal at a time where this
economy seems to be on a razor's edge,
breaking one way or potentially another?
>> This market's just breaking one way. Up,
up, and away. Alltime highs again in
yesterday's session. Futures this
morning just a little bit softer. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with
Edardenni of Yardeni Research as stocks
look to build on record highs. Ed Mills
of Raymond James on a new model for US
sales in China and the former World Bank
President David Malpass on the race to
be the next Fed chair. We begin this
hour as rate cut bets send bond yields
lower and help send the stock market
back to backto-back all-time highs. To
discuss, Ed Yardeni of Yard Denny
Research joins us now for more. Ed,
welcome to the program, sir. Can this
market, as we've been discussing, have
its cake and eat it too?
>> It's doing it right now for sure. Uh
we've uh had a very strong bull market
really since uh uh October of 2022 and
uh really it hasn't stopped. uh we had a
correction at the beginning of the year
related to uh uncertainty about Trump's
u employment uh policies for the
government uh with Doge and uncertainty
about tariffs and so naturally if you're
an employer you're going to hold off on
hiring and not necessarily fire anybody
and so I think a lot of the soft patch
which is I think what it's been is
related to uncertainty and I think the
markets are starting to conclude that
you know what uncertainty is going to be
with us here for a while. Let's move on
with our businesses. And I think the
economy is in good shape.
>> Ed, the enthusiasm is starting to
spread, starting to spread beyond the
big tech story. Two days of really
decent days of gains for small caps.
Now, Ed, whenever this market
participants get a sniff of out
performance on a small caps, the
excitement starts to build again. Is
this another head fake or the real deal?
Well, you know, we've had lots of head
fakes in that regard really since 2018.
Uh, roughly around then. Uh, we did see
that midcaps consistently uh
underperformed
uh the large caps, the S&P 500. I'm
looking at the S&P 400 midcaps, the S&P
600 small caps. They just kept
underperforming. Uh, every now and then
you'd get a head fake. And I won't be
surprised if this is another head fake.
I'm not telling anybody that it's not
tradable. I think clearly uh it is
tradable as previous head fakes have
been, but they don't last very long. And
the reason is that uh earnings of the
small cap, midcap companies just
continue to be in a coma. They've been
flatlining since 2018. And I think
they're doing that because the uh the
good ones keep getting bought out uh by
the by the large caps. So you you never
really get a situation where you can buy
a small cap and uh have it turn into a
Microsoft.
>> If the Fed were to cut by 50 basis
points next month, would you change your
view? Would you see this as something
other than a head fake?
>> Well, I think we then I would just say
we're in a a meltup. I mean, it feels
like a meltup already. We've uh seen
this uh the correction at the early at
the beginning of the year. We've seen
multiples go from 22 forward PE for the
S&P 500 at the beginning of the year uh
down to 18. We didn't get down to 15. We
didn't get down to 10. Uh the market
figured out and kind of agreed with me
that the economy was resilient and we're
not going to have a a recession. And
when it did that, suddenly boom, we went
right back up uh to 22. And so the
market ain't cheap. And the reality is
if the Fed cuts when there's still, as
you said, a lot of ambiguity about
whether it really needs a cut, uh it
doesn't really need a 50 basis point
cut, let a 25 basis point cut. The
administration needs interest rates to
come down because they'd like to see the
interest cost of the debt come down. But
the economy, I think, is going to
surprise everybody in the next few
months, especially the consumer, as you
also indicated, and show some resilience
on the consumer part and capital
spending. a lot of it is technology
related that's going to continue to go.
So I think um you know as the the drums
beat for uh more rate cuts here and
we're probably now going to get one in
se September uh and then there'll be
expectations for another one after that
before the end of the year. I think
we're in a meltup situation. So, you
know, right now I'm still kind of
sticking to 6,600 on the S&P 500 by by
by year end because I I think there's
still a couple of indicators here that
might uh suggest that maybe the Fed
shouldn't be lowering rates. But, uh,
absent that, uh, we could go right back
to 6,900 7,000 uh, by the end of the
year on a meltup situation. And the
problem with meltups is they're followed
by meltdowns.
>> Well, that's where I wanted to go, Ed.
This is something that you talked about
a couple of months ago that you're
worried if the Fed cuts rates too much
you could end up with a bubble and that
you could end up with late 1990s type
scenario that leads to the meltdown that
you are referring to. How close are we
to that? If we do get the series of rate
cuts that the market's currently pricing
in.
>> Well, before we go there, let's also
point out, let me also point out that at
the end of last year, uh, I also felt
that there was no need for the Fed to
lower interest rates. And I said that if
the Fed did lower interest rates, bond
yields would go up. Uh little did I know
that the Fed would do a 100 basis points
all told at the end of last year. And
guess what? The bond yield went up 100
basis points. And uh you know,
frustrated all those people who want to
see mortgage rates come down and
corporate comes corporate rates come
down. So the the the Fed ease, but the
bond vigilantes tightened and we have
that possibility again now. So, uh, just
because the Fed eases, let's watch what
the bond market does. It may not be very
happy with the Fed, uh, uh, moving to
lower interest rates when the Fed's been
telling us for a long time that they
need to get their inflation rate down to
2% and right now it's closer to 3% than,
uh, than 2%. But yeah, I mean, a 1990s
style scenario is uh, is a possibility.
I mean, right now AI looks like it's on
a much firmer uh footings with earnings
than we saw back in the tech wreck that
occurred in the late 1990s, early 2000s.
Uh but uh you know, in this market uh
you never know. I mean, deep seek came
out of nowhere uh in January and created
a pretty nasty correction.
>> Deep. And then we bounced back pretty
quickly, didn't we? Ed, that's the stock
market. I want to tease out what you
just said about the bond market. Do you
see then a similar backdrop this time
around to what we saw take place back in
September?
>> Unfortunately, I do. I I think that uh
the bond market is not going to like the
Fed uh uh kind of caving into political
pressure and uh and easing. Uh I mean,
you know, I think a lot of Fed officials
are probably on the fence, but they're
getting pushed over to the easing side
by the political pressure. And uh that
being the case, I think the bond
vigilantes, I mean, that's what the bond
vigilantes are supposed to do. They're
supposed to maintain law and order in
the credit markets and in the financial
markets and the economy if uh the
sheriff decides to go out to the saloon.
>> Not seeing much law and order right now,
Ed. Appreciate your time. Ed Yardani of
Yardani Research. Thank you, sir. So,
let's go back to last year. September
last year, Federal Reserve comes out,
drops 50, drops another 50 later on
across two meetings. So, across three
meetings down 100 basis points. What
happened? yields of the long end rose
100 basis points. Now, if that's right,
we have a similar move by both the
Federal Reserve and this market. That
puts us a bit deeper into the 5% range
on a 10-year maturity,
>> which a number of people have raised as
a possibility given the fact that we
still have inflation above 2% and we
could have more inflationary pressures
that come down the pike. I just want to
point out so far this morning, we've
heard the bond market described as too
smart for its own good and uh their goal
of maintaining law and order. I love the
sort of, you know, incredibly powerful
role that the bond market has gotten in
the eyes.
>> Both too smart and and lawless.
>> Self-regulating might be the bridge
between the two.
>> Yeah, the sheriff in town, but also, you
know, smarter than everybody else. It's
the parent that all of us need, but
maybe doesn't want
>> apparently. 420 is the parenting this
morning. Guilted down by two basis
points. Is that less strict? Maybe. I'm
not going to.
>> Yeah, I think I think that I think that
this is a very re reasonable parent
right now.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. What are we doing? Let's get
you Bloomberg brief with Yahara. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump warned
Russia that he would impose very severe
consequences if Vladimir Putin doesn't
agree to a ceasefire with Ukraine. Trump
is set to meet with Putin tomorrow in
Anchorage, Alaska. He said he hoped to
use the meeting to set up a quick second
meeting with Putin and President
Vladimir Silinski. Meanwhile, last month
was the busiest month ever in the Port
of Los Angeles's 117-year history. The
port moved more than 1 million
containers in July, which was an 8 12%
increase from a year ago. The rise came
as uncertainty over President Trump's
tariffs drove shippers to frontload
their cargos. And President Trump signed
an executive order to ease regulations
for the commercial space industry. The
order could directly benefit Trump's
one-time ally, Elon Musk's SpaceX as it
ramps up test flights of its gargantuan
Starship rocket. First, buddy again.
Time will tell. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara in about 30 minutes from
now. Up next on the program, taking a
slice of corporate America.
>> This is a very unique solution. Allows
Nvidia to expand into China. It can make
Nvidia chips. the uh bellweather for
Chinese technology and then the US
taxpayer gets a share of that.
>> Unique. Just how unique is it? Ed Mills
of Rama James joins us next.
[Music]
In 1 hour and about 15 minutes, we'll
get some economic data. So, let's call
it 8:30 Eastern time. You'll get another
read on inflation with PPI data and
another read on the labor market with
jobless claims. And jobless claims data
is set to look pretty good based on the
estimates in our survey. We're still
looking for something close to 225,
which is better than pretty good
actually. It's pretty phenomenal given
what's happening elsewhere. So, that's
the story for the data later on this
morning. Here's the story for the
market. Equity futures at the moment on
the S&P 500 pulling back just a touch.
We're down by not even a tenth of 1%
following yesterday's all-time highs and
events this morning taking a slice of
corporate America.
>> This is a very unique solution. Allows
Nvidia to expand into China. it can make
Nvidia chips the uh bellweather for
Chinese technology and then the US
taxpayer gets a share of that. We could
see it in other industries over time. I
think you know right now uh this is
unique but you now now that we have the
model and the the beta test, why not
expand it?
>> It's the latest this morning. The US
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson telling
us the deal allowing Nvidia and AMD to
sell chips in China for a share of their
revenue could be replicated in other
industries. Joining us now, a man who
follows these stocks and this industry
is Bloomberg's Tom McKenzie. Now Tom,
you and I were talking about this
earlier this week, just how unique is
it? And talking to the Treasury
Secretary yesterday, maybe not that
unique.
What a remarkable line that you and
Amarie managed to get out of the
Treasury Secretary of course saying that
this could be applied to other sectors
and other industries. So you have to
wonder if you're a Boeing, if you're a
Qualcomm, if you're a Ford selling into
that second largest economy, of course,
do you have to start to think about or
put in place some mitigation, start to
factor this in as a potential price to
pay, pay to play if you want to get
access to that Chinese market? Or do we
need to think about it more narrowly in
terms of national security? And even if
you do that, what about the jurisdiction
when it comes to the US? Do you need to
start to think if you're ASML in the
Netherlands in Europe or if you're Tokyo
Electron over in Japan with that feed
into the semiconductor industry of
China? Do you need to start to think
that maybe the US is going to start
putting pressure on you in terms of not
just those export licenses, but maybe
even if you do get some easing there,
what does it mean in terms of the
revenue hit potentially? Where does that
revenue go? Maybe that's taking it too
far. But I think in terms of the
national security concerns that you
addressed with the Treasury Secretary,
they're clearly still there. And if
you're in other spaces with significant
exposure to that Chinese market, even
where growth is looking a little
challenged, it's got to be a question
for you going forward.
>> Tom, I'm really glad that you went
there. How can we understand national
security and how much it's offset by
some sort of fee that a company pays the
US government?
>> How does it get offset? I mean this the
the key thing to think about is the both
sides China and the US and this came
through in the first Trump
administration and you felt that on the
ground in Beijing both sides putting
extra focus on the question of national
security. I remember then the secretary
of state Mike Pompeo making an overture
around potential regime change making a
nod to that in the first Trump
administration and you saw a significant
change in terms of the posture of the
security operators in China as a
response to that. You go all the way
back to then and that continues to weave
through the narrative right now. They
are acutely aware of course in the US
and in China that this comes down to
national security whether it's
semiconductors or the broader picture
around the economy and the trade
relationship between these two nations.
And it's a tension clearly that lies at
the heart as well of how things
accelerate on the innovation and AI
story. China's got its competitors in
the race when it comes to AI and these
models. They're key competitors that
they lent into. They've had the flesh
pressing with Xi Jinping, the likes of
Deep Seek and Alibaba and others.
They're the golden children. But
equally, China wants them essentially to
run on the track, the 100 meter track
with their arm tied behind their back
because they want them to be using
Huawei chips and not Nvidas. Strong
point, Tom. Appreciate it. Tom McKenzie
there, the host of Bloomay Technology
out of Europe. Joining us this morning
out of London, Ed Mills of Rayma James
joins us now for more to extend this
conversation. Ed, welcome to the
program. We spent so much time talking
about taxes on inbound trade. Do we now
need to start thinking about taxes on
outbound trade?
>> I think you do. Um, John, I think this
is pretty remarkable because what we are
talking about here are things that were
restricted or national security reasons.
Now, if it's restricted for national
security reasons, it should be
restricted regardless of how much you
pay. So, just because you're now willing
to pay 15% of your profits should not
oversee those national security
concerns. I think the good thing so far
is that what we're talking about are
chips that were otherwise allowed before
President Trump started to ramp up
things on China. Um those were things
that I think a lot of national security
officials thought were okay to go into
China. If it were to expand and it go to
some of the chips that are at the
leading edge uh with a profit sharing
there, that's where you get a lot of
concerns from Capitol Hill and other
national security officials. If this is
a model going into the future, uh, this
will be a huge concern for investors. I
can tell you at Raymond James, I've
gotten a couple questions about this
this week, but it hasn't been as
overwhelmingly as a concern as the other
tariff stories, especially the 232 on
semiconductors. But if this builds, this
will be big.
>> I imagine after those comments, you
might get more questions, Ed, over the
next several days. How are you thinking
about things? Are there other industries
that require export licenses that might
be vulnerable here that perhaps we
should be thinking about more?
Yeah, I think it is mostly within tech
and I think what has been uh the story
since the first Trump administration is
that we are looking at our technology as
a national security asset. And so if we
are allowing others to get access to
that national security asset, we need to
put restrictions around it or apparently
we need to make sure that we get part of
the profits around that. Um, going
forward, I do think the semicap
equipment is the most likely next step
because where we've seen the biggest
restrictions are in semicap equipment
and there's a lot of leverage in
negotiations that we've been trying to
put on the Dutch and Japanese
governments as we are trying to get
those uh standards that the United
States has put on harmonized globally.
There's a very simplistic way of looking
at this, Ed, which is that money can't
compensate for national security concern
if it truly is a national security
concern. There is a more nuanced take on
it that we were talking about earlier,
which is that this national security
risk is two ways. There's the risk of
China getting US chips and using them to
exceed the capabilities of the United
States when it comes to technology.
There's also China becoming dominant and
creating their own belt and road type of
structure using their own technology in
the world and wanting to maintain a
foothold. Do you get a sense that that
aspect of national security is gaining
clout in the administration and is part
of why there has been this shift in this
profit sharing agreement?
Yeah, I think Lisa the the two things
that were probably the biggest arguments
by Nvidia and AMD is that if we do not
allow these chips to be sold, uh these
companies will be left out altogether
and that Huawei could take over and
maybe in the near term the United States
can keep this global dominance and and
kind of work with others to to maintain
that lead. Uh but if we don't are you if
we're not part of the conversation, if
we're not part of what is being used, uh
will it be left behind and are we going
to see a complete divergence where
there's going to be a China set of
technology and a rest of the world set
of technology? And if the China
technology ultimately gets better 5, 10,
whatever number of years from now, if
that supersedes the United States,
that's a national security concern for
the United States. So from that
perspective, you can say, "All right,
let's make sure our technology is at
least part of the conversation to
maintain that dominance because it's a
bigger national security concerns if we
don't have that in the long term." Lisa,
>> how much is this going to be a template
for some of the US trading partners that
might be looking at some of their key
resources and wondering how they can
monetize that with exports?
>> I would be surprised if others really
get involved here. I think Trump is
unique in his willingness to be
transactional uh his pay-to-play aspect
uh to this. Uh I would be looking to see
if there's other parts of the trade
agenda. If you remember, all of the
trade deals so far areus. We don't have
all of the details fleshed out. One of
the key components of almost every one
of those are huge purchases from other
countries. Do you have the Trump
administration going to those c
countries and saying all right we will
let you buy some of these things only if
we get a cut of the profit. So as we
look at some of the agriculture the oil
and gas the aeronautics that are being
sold globally in these trade deals when
we get those final details is that going
to be something that there's going to be
a uh percentage that goes to the United
States government in addition to the
taxes and the economic benefit we get to
pay down the national debt. You've seen
a lot of this kind of go on with the
conversations about a sovereign wealth
fund in a desire to, you know, bring
down the debt and the deficit. If they
can do that, then that gets pretty
interesting from a debt and deficit
perspective, but very concerning from a
kind of US government injecting
themselves into corporate America
conversation. Lisa,
>> becoming increasingly interventionist,
that's for sure. Ed, thank you, sir. Ed
Mills there of Raymond James. I loved
your question. And as you were asking
it, I was already looking at ASML over
in Europe and thinking about the same
thing.
>> I mean, how much do you just say, "Okay,
well, ASML can't chip over some of their
chip production equipment to the United
States without giving the Netherlands,
you know, 20%." I mean, at what point
does this become a self-fulfilling
prophecy in terms of the way to do
business in the chip wars of 2025?
>> Bottom line, there's a lot of
governments that need to raise some
money,
>> 100%.
>> And they're coming up with new ways to
do it. Equity features on the S&P 500
just about unchanged this morning.
Conversation continues. Up next, we'll
catch up with the former World Bank
President, David Malpass, on President
Trump's search for a new Fed chair.
Plus, Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers as tariffs weigh on Tapestry's
outlook. That name is down by more than
7%. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
two days of gains on the S&P 500. Just
about unchanged so far this morning.
We're going nowhere on the S&P 500. On
the NASDAQ 100, unchanged, also not
unchanged in the bond market. Three days
of lower yield to the front end of the
curve. the two-year this morning at 366
two Fridays ago following payrolls 368
at the close. So we've held on to these
levels post payrolls and we're looking
for those big rate cuts
>> with job owning from the administration
but also a couple of different Fed
officials signaling a willingness to
potentially cut rates uh at least by 25
basis points, not 50 basis points.
looking at what the market's pricing in.
Fed funds futures looking at a full 25
basis point rate cut baked in for next
month and another one by year end but
starting to push in maybe a little bit
more than that.
>> A lot of this is going to hang on what
happens in early September when we get
that next payroll sprint and a week
later when we get another read on CPI
later this morning 60 minutes from now
another read on inflation with PPI and
jobless claims for a look at the labor
market with two hours until the opening
bell. Let's get you some morning movers
with Danny Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Tapestry getting hit pretty
hard in the pre-market. They were just
out with earnings. Those shares down 8
and a3%. The aspirational goods maker
Kate Spade among them. They gave an
outlook for the year that looks pretty
bad compared to last year. Only 4%
growth. Last year was 7% growth. And
within those estimates, it would appear
that their EPS is taking a 60cent hit
from tariffs and higher costs
specifically. So, it's a new
incorporation that the street has to put
into their share price and you see that
underway. We also heard from deer. those
earnings also out also a negative
reaction there for their outlook it was
a cut to their outlook on one side of
the thing it's supply there was a record
American corn harvest and then there's
the demand side with that being
uncertain given the trade wars
undergoing in the United States because
of that farmers buying less equipment
shares down 5 a.5% just want to end on
the positive thing taking place in the
market and that's the continued hype
around crypto and an IPO yesterday from
bullish this rallied 84% yesterday. The
crypto exchange when it debuted, shares
move higher yet again this morning, up
15.7%. John
>> Danny, thank you. What a name. And with
a name like that, does that just become
the proxy for the broader market?
Bullish.
>> It's either bullish or it's not. And
ultimately, if it falls by more than
10%, you know where you're going to be.
>> Ridiculous performance. Okay, let's move
on. On our radar this morning, President
Trump issuing a warning to the Russian
President Vladimir Putin, saying he
would impose very severe consequences if
a ceasefire agreement isn't reached. The
leader said to meet for high stakes
talks tomorrow in Alaska.
>> A lot at stake here uh from a humanity
perspective given how many lives have
been lost in this conflict and how much
this really has strained the economies
of the entire region. That said, and to
take a more sort of market perspective,
and I apologize because it seems
somewhat harsh, but have people priced
in too much in terms of expecting a
ceasefire coming out of this when it
comes to the oil market. We've seen oil
prices come in, yes, because of over
supply, but how much does this include
over supply coming from potentially
Russia? Should there be some sort of
ceasefire or normalization of ties? And
how much could that bounce back if you
don't get some sort of of of deliverable
from this meeting?
>> It's a good question to ask. This is the
appropriate forum to ask it, I think, is
what a lot of people watching this
program are thinking about. What I'm
thinking about when the president
engages in these talks over the weekend,
does he walk into the room with a carrot
or a stick or does he try and achieve
both?
>> Yeah. And is it enough of a stick to say
your economy is falling off a cliff?
Norman Rule saying not so much. And
that's really the issue. What is the
stick that he has if he doesn't have the
Europeans on board to really uh engage
with secondary sanctions? And so
ultimately, how high are hopes in
markets versus in diplomacy circles?
>> And what's the carrot if he doesn't have
permission from the Ukrainians to have a
conversation about the integrity of
Ukrainian territory, which based on what
we've heard over the last 24 hours, he
certainly does not.
>> Yeah. How much leverage does he have?
This is another way of uh asking a
really important question, which is, is
he walking in, I'm talking about
President Trump, with cards that can
really achieve what he's looking to set
out to do.
>> And the message you're set to get based
on what we heard from Norman R. So, not
my opinion. basically what he was
saying, get a guy that comes into a room
who knows a lot about business. He turns
around to the Russian president, points
to his economy, and says it's doing
dreadful. We can make this perform a
whole lot better. Let's do some trade
deals. Let's do this. Let's do that. The
problem with that is that's not really
the guiding light of President Putin
right now. Otherwise, he wouldn't have
engaged in this war to begin with.
>> Economic rationale has never been the
load stone of uh Russian imperialism.
So, it's hard to see how it would be
right now.
>> Those talks are going to play out over
the weekend. As I mentioned in the
previous hour, Amarie on the road today.
She'll be over in Alaska following those
talks for you, bringing you all the
headlines Friday and through the
weekend. Wanted to squeeze in this
story. Chinese startup Deepseek,
remember them, delaying the release of
its latest AI model. Sources telling the
Financial Times that Deep Seek struggled
to train systems using Huawei chips. So,
at the start of this week, we had this
deal with Nvidia. Then, we had this
report here at Bloomberg that the
Chinese were telling some companies,
some companies that you should not be
using those chips. Use Huawei. And this
is what we're hearing from the FT. I
think this is really interesting stuff
>> and it goes to the point that you made
earlier deep who we talked about how
deepseek was transformative earlier this
year that China could do so much with so
little and really create these
sophisticated open AI types of uh of
chat bots. Question here, could they
actually have achieved that without
using some of the more advanced US
technology? Number one. Number two, how
much does DeepSeek really rely on that
ongoing US technology? and how much can
this really inform President Trump's
decision to levy some of these chips and
the exports over into China. It does
raise a question though also about just
how far ahead China is when it comes to
their tech development and whether they
are as close to the United States as so
many people have said.
>> And to clarify, not to throw too much
snark at a company that has done
something pretty phenomenal, Deepo based
on the rebound we've seen in tech stocks
in America has just been absolutely
phenomenal.
>> They had been driving everything
earlier. remember the huge swoon in US
tech because people said, "Oh, it's
over. People are going to stop
investing. You could do the same thing
with a little chip here as you can with
a whole room of chips and then maybe not
so fast and now we're back to the AI
trading."
>> There was a phrase that Nvidia CEO Jens
Wang used, export compliant still
rattles around my brain sometimes. How
export compliant were the successes, the
achievements of that company earlier
this year. And can they continue with
these types of successes with the H20
chip given the fact that it is what some
people have said years behind the latest
and greatest from Nvidia that sold into
US and its uh trading partners.
>> That's the latest on tech. I wanted to
turn to this the latest on trade. The
Port of Los Angeles seeing the highest
container volume in its 117year history
in July. The port's executive director,
good friend of this program over the
years, Gene Srooka, attributing the
spike to traders frontloading cargo
before President Trump's import duties
take effect. So, what is Gene Soka
telling us this morning? Jean Sroka is
telling us that we've got a lot of
pre-tariff inventory still working its
way through the economy last month and
potentially this month and the months to
come.
>> That is exactly the point here.
essentially how much can we take a look
at how much inflation's been passed
along from the goods that have been
imported so far since some of the
tariffs have gone on and said that's
what will continue because guess what a
lot of that inventory did not receive
the same kind of tariffs that some of
the future inventory will because it was
brought forward people are trying to
take advantage of any windows that they
possibly can. It just shows how messy it
is to categorize the inflationary
impulse from some of the policies that
have taken place. It's really difficult
for any of us to draw conclusions,
including officials over at the Federal
Reserve. The president, by the way,
saying he'll name the next Fed chair
earlier than perhaps as expected. The
Trump administration announcing he's
down to three or four names after
previously floating as many as 11
candidates. Joining us now to discuss is
the former World Bank President David
Malpass. David, my good friend, welcome
back to the program, sir. Let's talk
about the leader of the Federal Reserve
and the next Fed chair. What are the
characteristics that we're looking for
here, David, in the next Fed chair?
>> Hi, John and Lisa. Uh, I I think what is
needed is a lot of change at the Fed.
So, the characteristics are someone that
will bring change and really confront
the PhD economists that have been
running the Fed. You heard some of that
in your previous guest talking about the
bond market vigilantes and the parent we
all need. uh and uh so that I think the
getting the Fed out of the way of the
market uh and creating the rationale for
a much lower interest rate curve along
the curve. I think that's what's
critical. I was very happy to see
Secretary Bessant yesterday talk about
two things. One is the 50 basis point uh
cut possibilities and also the need for
foundational change at the Fed. That to
me means more loans for small
businesses. So that's going to be one of
the opportunities for the US as we uh
change the supply chain.
>> You said uh in some of your previous
comments that the Fed is using old
models that are wrong on economics.
Which models in particular do you think
are incorrect?
>> There's a long list. How how long do you
have? The Phillips curve doesn't work.
The idea of ample reserves doesn't work.
The idea of inflation targeting using
backwardlooking data doesn't work.
There's a big opportunity there. If you
use forward-looking price-based data,
you could get lower interest rates and
the market would welcome it. That's what
we saw yesterday, I think, when when the
secretary said foundational change.
There are better ways to do this than
what the Fed has been doing. They they
lean against growth, Lisa, and that
that's been part of the problem that
when the economy gets going, they say,
"Oh, that's overheating." when actually
that's what we want. That's the goal of
economic policy to have non-inflationary
growth.
>> David, a lot of people would say that
when they don't tamp down on inflation,
it's been asset price inflation that's
really run away and that that has led to
a number of pretty significant crashes.
What are you pointing to in particular
in terms of practical consequences that
point to some of those policies? I mean,
what would what do you think the growth
rate should be in the United States
right now if the Fed were using the
models that you would like to use?
>> I think the growth rate can be
comfortably 3% real GDP growth, maybe
4%. Uh the Fed has a potential GDP speed
limit. Uh they just published on June
18th the idea that it should be 1.85%
per year. So that's that just doesn't
make sense given the possibilities of
regulatory change, the recent tax uh
stabilization. Uh so they they took the
tax cut that excuse me, the tax increase
that Biden was planning and Biden Harris
were planning and took it off the table.
So that's it that that allows businesses
to begin investing for the future. Uh
can Lisa, you know, the Fed has
perpetuated this idea ever since Paul
Vulker that high rates are the way to
bring down inflation. The reality is
more production is the way to bring down
inflation. And Trump's doing that with
all the changes going on in the economy.
>> David, I'm happy for people to make the
accusation that perhaps this Fed chair
has been reckless with monetary policy,
but I'm far more sympathetic to the idea
that he's been recklessly dovish. This
is an individual that led a Fed that let
inflation absolutely rip. This is an
individual that saw markets doing okay,
equities still close to all-time highs,
and cut interest rates 100 basis points.
David, can we really make the argument
that they've been recklessly hawkish?
>> Yes. Uh they're hawkish right now. And
look at the difference in the
environment they were cutting into. It
was politicized in 2024. uh there there
were heavy regulations stopping business
uh there there was no investment going
on and yet they were they were uh
cutting thinking that uh inflation was
transitory what we have now is a big
change going on in the economy and I
think the opportunity for capital to
flow into the US as you make the economy
stronger you're going to get support for
the dollar uh and again I we have to
look at how the markets reacted
yesterday favorably whereas when when uh
the the Fed was cutting during 2024,
markets reacted unfavorably. So there's
a huge difference.
>> Look at the difference between the
market right now though and what the
Federal Reserve is ultimately
projecting. David, I don't think there's
too much daylight. This is a market and
a Federal Reserve that seems to be on
course to cut interest rates somewhere
between 100 and 150 basis points. What
we heard from the Secretary of the
Treasury yesterday was they need to cut
from 150 to 175. David, I understand
there should be a healthy debate, but is
there really that much controversy
between what the administration would
like to see and what's ultimately being
projected by both markets and the
Federal Reserve alike over the next 18
months?
>> I think that's useful. the markets are
are are bu are looking at what's going
on in the economy and realizing that
there can be a lower interest rate
environment for the United States across
the whole yield curve. I think that's
important and that adds to growth. I
look the goal here is a virtuous circle
where capital flows in where growth goes
up and production goes up uh and that
brings down prices. So then you can keep
doing interest rate cuts. You get a
virtuous circle. I think that's that's
possible. It's going to be really
important for the Fed and PhD economists
to get to to realize that their models
haven't been working over the years.
We've had these wide swings in inflation
and deflation and interest rates because
the Fed's looking backwards. And so we
need new models, sweeping change in the
models. That's been what I've pointed
out. and it will benefit small
businesses. That's the key.
>> David, looking forward and using your
models, what do you think the neutral
rate is?
>> I think the neutral rate is lower than
and lower than where we are now. You
know, the the Fed keeps saying that
they're the interest rates are
appropriate right now at 4.4%.
How do they know that? They're the ones
setting that rate and paying banks uh a
lot of them international banks. 40% of
the money pay out by the Fed is going to
international banks and they've paid
$1.3 trillion uh since they started
paying interest to banks. So they're
affecting the markets and they don't
know what the neutral rate or what the
the the bearable rate is.
>> Well, to be fair,
they're taking a stab at it. They think
the longerterm rate is something close
to three. So what do you think it is?
Close to three is like 150 south of
where we are at the moment. What do you
think it is? How much lower than that
could it be?
>> I I I think the strength of the US
economy justifies lower rates across the
curve substantially lower and the market
is looking at that and already uh
beginning to price that in and it's part
of the favorable environment being
created.
>> I think we've lost the connection with
David Malpass. I was quite enjoying that
and I've done David was too. A spirited
conversation with the former World Bank
President David Malfz.
>> Yeah. Talking about how different models
are required to really adequately look
forward at a time when he believes that
the neutral rate should be a lot lower.
He said that there seems to be some sort
of speed limit to the GDP that the Fed
has in its mind and it's sort of this
debate of how you modulate these two
mandates both of unemployment rate as
well as inflation. And it will continue
to be a robust academic.
>> Cue the controversy. Who killed the
line? who come in.
>> Exactly. Totally.
>> Apologies for the technical problems
there. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. The US is open to discussing
the use of Nvidia chips with China.
Speaking to us yesterday, US Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant said they're
open to that since a lot of Chinese tech
is already piggybacking on the US. As
you guys have been talking about this
morning, Besson also noting that the
US's deal with Nvidia and AMD to get a
15% cut from its China chip sales can be
used to pay down the US debt. Meanwhile,
a US appeals court says the Trump
administration can block billions of
dollars in foreign aid already approved
by Congress for distribution.
separately. A Maryland federal judge has
rejected the Trump administration's
attempt to throw out a lawsuit that
accuses Elon Musk of unlawfully
directing the closure of USID.
And Amazon plans to offer sameday
grocery delivery in 2300 cities by the
end of the year, more than doubling the
current number. It says customers will
be able to order perishable items
alongside frozen foods and household
goods. The same day grocery delivery
service will be free in most cities for
Amazon Prime subscribers on orders over
$25. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
Yara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour in about 30 minutes from now.
Up next on the program, looking for the
Fed to go big.
>> I do think we could go into a series of
rate cuts here starting with a 50 basis
point rate cut in September. The rates
are too constrictive. We should probably
be 150 175 basis points lower.
>> Coming will catch up with sonite of
Franklin Templeton fixed income. That's
up next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Under surveillance this
morning, looking for the Fed to go big.
We could have had rate cuts in June and
July. So that tells me that there's a
very good chance of a 50 basis point
rate cut. I do think we could go into a
series of rate cuts here starting with a
50 basis point rate cut in September.
The rates are too constrictive. If if
you look at any model that the you know
if if you we we should probably be 150
175 basis points lower.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson calling
for a 50 basis point rate cut as traders
fully priced in a quarter point cut in
September. Son of Desire Franklin
Templeton writing the scope for rate
cuts is extremely limited barring a
sharp slowdown because we're very close
to my estimate of the natural policy
rate. Son joins us now for more. Son,
welcome to the program. some real
daylight then between you and the
Treasury Secretary and some of the
market pricing. Just build on some of
that and explain as to why.
>> So, okay, I think the market at the
short end is pricing wishfully. The
market always does and it's done it
several times over the past several
years. I would say this based on perhaps
also listening to some of your previous
guests. The Fed has done itself no
favors. It really hasn't by what it did
last year across any metric. If you look
at the different metrics of
unemployment, NFPS, CPI, core CPI, the
Fed actually h would have had a 50 basis
point rate cut would arguably be more
justifiable this year than it was last
year. I didn't agree with it last year
and I still don't think they should be
doing 50. They have said in their SCPs
that they will do 50 more.
Maybe you could get away with that. I'd
say that my natural rate uh my natural
rate for Fed funds is around four and
that comes from a very simple place.
Even if the Fed is correct and it's you
know the GDP potential GDP is at around
1.85 I think 1.852 is probably all right
because that's around where productivity
growth is. You take that and you take
the Fed's target of 2% inflation you do
not get to 3%. You don't get to 250. You
get to around four. That's where the
natural rate is. And that's what I'm
that's what I mean. Absent
us falling into a significant recession,
the Fed doesn't really need to cut that
much more.
>> That's what I'm saying. And the market
will price what the market hopes for.
And yeah, you know, if we're talking
about uh kids at a party, well, the Fed
kind of gave us the punch bowl when
it's, you know, that's what they haven't
given it to us, but that's what the
market is hoping for right now. So Ed
Yardeni who we were speaking to earlier
was talking about how he could see a
repeat of what happened last year when
they cut 100 basis points if they cut 50
basis points this year. He could see uh
some sort of steepening in the yield
curve longend yields uh rising
substantially. Do you agree with that?
>> So you know the only part about that
where I'd say I think that long end
yields you know look I've I've been
saying for a long time that I could
easily see longend yields at 4755 by the
end of the year. I haven't changed that
view based on the volatility we've been
seeing. You know, we go down to 420, we
go back to 440. I think that long end
yields could comfortably go to 4755
given that I think that the that the
neutral rate for the Fed is at around
four. Now, could we see a steepening
just on the back of this? Yes, with one
caveat and that is I would agree with
what uh Mr. Bessent was saying yesterday
in terms of the additional revenues
coming into uh the fiscal picture we
haven't really I think in the market
paid sufficient attention maybe to the
fact that none of us last year were
anticipating any narrowing of the fiscal
deficit and you know it could even
happen and that would be quite stunning
and that would be one thing which would
perhaps prevent us from going much
beyond that 4755 level.
>> This is something the Treasury Secretary
was talking about. So I was absolutely
right when we asked him how much money
is being raised. He was talking about
initially I thought something like 300
billion in a year. Maybe we've got to
upward revise that number to something a
whole lot bigger.
>> Which is a reason why yesterday some
people were suggesting that was why you
didn't see a selling off in longer term
yields because of your conversation and
what Scott Besson said. this would
offset some of the deficit concerns that
people had heading into this year.
>> Deficit concerns internationally though
are not going away and that's the issue
they've got which is why I keep coming
back to this 30-year piece. It's a
question we've got to ask authorities
around the world right now. What's your
incentive to issue a 30-year when based
on some of the price action, the
auctions that we've seen worldwide, not
many people seem to want to touch it,
>> right? Because this is going to be an
international issue. That said, it's
very hard for the United States to take
the moral high ground on that given the
fact that they haven't exactly been
fiscally responsible and it's not
exactly as if Germany is just completely
overloaded in debt. So there is a very
difficult discussion to be had here when
the United States starts, you know,
sending this message.
>> Hey Solo, appreciate your time as
always. So I'll design their Franklin
Templeton fixed income on the bond
market worldwide and the Federal
Reserve. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with Tracy McMillion of Wells
Fargo. will speak to Pierre Ferugu of
New Street Research on Apple's latest AI
efforts. Neil Richardson of ADP looking
for jobless claims in about 34 minutes
time. Plus, Scott Cronin of City with a
new price target on the S&P 500. I'll
give you a hint. It's higher. From New
York City, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
inflation
data, labor market data, you really need
to dig under the surface to get a true
sense of what the impact is.
>> Inflation is alive and well.
>> The market is pricing that inflation
expectations have almost become
unanchored already.
>> You'll still see, we think, some pass
through of higher tariffs onto prices.
>> Inflation might run hot well through
next year. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> The opening battle about 90 minutes
away. The economic data 30 minutes away.
Let's start with your scores. Let's
start with the markets. Equity futures
just about unchanged on the S&P 500.
Likewise on the NASDAQ 100. In the bond
market, not unchanged at all. Multimonth
lows on 2-year government bond yields.
Your 2-year this morning, 366. Going
into this a little bit later this
morning. data in America, PPI and
jobless claims, 8:30 Eastern time.
>> So, are bond yields falling for the
right reason for the PPI report that
could echo what we heard in CPI on
Tuesday, which demonstrates that we
aren't seeing the same kind of pass
through inflationary effects of tariffs
that a lot of people had been worried
about. Is that the reason why you are
seeing bond yields fall and expectations
for Fed rate cuts increase? Or is it
because of the bad news, which is the
labor market deterioration that some
people saw in the non-farm payrolls
report that could be echoed in jobless
claims that haven't really done much. If
anything, they're actually incredibly
low.
>> Sitting in this seat, we often hear a
lot of complaints about complacency.
It's often justified. I'm not pushing
back against that. Group think often
justified. Not pushing back against
that. But on this occasion on Wall
Street, I'm seeing a lot of diversity of
thought. We heard from Adich Bank of
America in the last hour. He turned
around to us and said he thinks this
labor market's okay. Minutes ago, gun to
claims Andrew Honhorse of City, labor
market's not solid. You ask one
economist right now in Wall Street how
the labor market's doing, they'll tell
you one thing. Ask another, they'll tell
you something completely different.
Looking at the very same economic data
>> because there are cyclical and there are
structural changes as you were pointing
out earlier. You have demographic
changes with aging. You have demographic
changes with uh with immigration. You've
got demographic changes when it comes to
which roles are going to be most
important with artificial intelligence,
machine learning, changes in some of the
structure of the labor economy. This is
the reason why Jackson Hole is going to
be so important. Does the Fed change the
way they measure strength or weakness in
the labor market at a time where that is
part of their dual mandate? And it is so
hard to understand exactly how much
slack as you said there actually is or
whether we could still see wages growing
at a healthy pace given the few workers
to fill those roles.
>> Yeah, we've been framing this as
follows. Are we seeing a cyclical turn
in the economy or a structural shift? We
seeing demand destruction or just a
supply side phenomena. Are we seeing a
step down in payrolls growth without the
increase in labor market slack? And
ultimately the more constructive people
on Wall Street right now think that's
the case. that you can see that step
down in payrolls growth, but because of
what's happening on the supply side,
you're not seeing an increase in slack
and the labor market is still okay. The
Fed chairman, by the way, in the last
meeting, we were sat here around the
table listening to the news conference.
He was pretty clear he was anchoring his
view on the labor market around the
unemployment rate. Now, we can have some
debate about that. Maybe you think it's
misleading. I don't know. But that was
his view in the news conference. I'd
like to know if this changed
>> and I'd like to know whether people
actually do think as you said this is a
market that can have its cake and eat it
too because right now you're seeing
equities reach all-time high after
all-time high on the heels of these rate
cut expectations even if this is a Fed
chair albeit in his twilight as Fed
chair who is watching the unemployment
rate and will only cut rates to that
degree if there is real substantive
deterioration which would suggest some
sort of weakness of the companies that
people are bidding up in you you'll hear
from the chairman a few times over the
next month or so in Jackson Hole. Lisa
will be there then again of course in
that news conference at the Fed meeting
a month or so away. Lisa talked about
the market bond yields breaking down to
new lows. This bond market rallying
alongside this move in the equity
market. New highs again this morning.
Equity futures just about turning
positive. Coming up this hour we'll
catch up with Tracy Mcmillian of Wells
Fargo as stocks look for a third day of
gains. It's Pierre Feder of New Street
Research on Apple's latest AI push and
Scott Croner of City raising his
year-end price target on the S&P 500. We
begin this hour with stock steady as
investors await the latest read on
inflation. Tracy McMillan of Wells Fargo
writing, "The S&P 500 is powering ahead,
but expect tariff surprises and economic
slowdown to stall the equity rally in
the intermediate term." Tracy joins us
now for more. Tracy, welcome to the
program. Let's just talk about why
you're pushing back a little bit against
these record highs we've been minting
over the last few months or so.
>> Yes, we are pushing back a little bit.
We are trimming and we're rebalancing
the portfolios. We've had, you know,
such a strong earning season. There's a
lot of optimism priced into markets and
we're going into a seasonally weak
period. So, we think it's time to trim
some of the gains in our large cap
positions. uh take our small cap
position to an underweight and take some
of that overweight position that we've
held in the equities asset group all
year. Move that into intermediate term
fixed income and look for some chop as
we move through uh the remainder of this
year.
>> Tracy, just stick on the equity
component of that call moving the small
caps to underway after a couple of days
where the small caps have performed
quite nicely. Now Tracy, as we talked
about this with Edardenni earlier,
trying to work out whether that breakout
in small caps, small breakout over the
last few days is just another head fake.
Why move the small caps portion of the
equity exposure to underweight?
>> Sure. Yeah, we do think that's probably
another head fake and that's been very
consistent with small cap performance o
over really the past few years. We've
seen um hopes that uh interest rates
will move lower and that will support
small caps. We think that that's what
we're seeing again this time. However,
our expectations for interest rates
differ from what the market is expecting
right now. We do not see as many rate
cuts as the market does. So, we don't
see that as a support for small caps. We
see small caps as a a a part of the
market where uh earnings potential is
just not as strong as the large caps and
the big caps. Tracy, you point to uh
some of the tariff ramifications as one
justification for why you're not as
bullish for the remainder of this year
when it comes to equity performance. And
it seems like that's justified when you
take a look at some of the earnings
calls in terms of the absorption of
these extra levies in profit margins.
You see this across the board from
Caterpillar, from Hershey, from Ford
with a $2 billion hit talking about
that. General Motors, why do you think
the market hasn't responded more to that
already? because we already have seen
some concrete numbers of just how big
these bills will be.
>> Sure. So, uh we have already started to
see some of those numbers. And you know,
if you think about where we started the
year at about 2.4%
for tariffs. We're going to end the year
probably at 18 plus is the projections
that that I've seen for that. So, that
is a big differential. as you said,
companies are absorbing those into
margins which have been very strong at
the moment. We think that that's going
to also be a pass through to the
consumer um when both companies and
consumers benefit early next year from
tax cuts, from potential additional
stimulus, and from deregulation. So, we
think that's why markets keep powering
ahead because they see the potential for
those things to mitigate uh some of the
tariff uh negativity in the coming year.
We agree with that. We just think over
the coming months in 2025, it could be
more volatile, could be more choppy as
we see additional tariff uh surprises uh
come to the four. By that same logic,
Tracy, there is sort of this
deflationary element to what you're
talking about. The idea that prices go
up, but that growth slows down. And
ultimately, that should be over the
longer term pretty good for long-term
bonds. Not necessarily if it's actually
stagflation like the 1970s, but if that
leads to a period of lower growth and
you have the coffers of the Treasury
Department getting filled by some of the
tariff revenue, how much are you seeing
this as a bullcase for longer term
treasuries?
So, we really aren't seeing this as a
bull case for longer term treasuries.
Instead, we like the intermediate part
of of the curve because we think that
rates are actually going to stay around
the level where they are. Our our
midpoint for 2025 is 4.25 on the
10-year. We move that up to 4.5 next
year. So, a bit of a rise in in
longerterm rates is what we're
anticipating as inflation stays firm and
as US debt continues to increase. Yes,
there's some offset from tariffs, but
we're just not convinced that that's
going to be enough to really draw down
uh the debt and the deficit.
>> Tracy, appreciate your views. Thanks for
joining us. Tracy McMillan there of
Wells Fargo on both equities and bonds.
So, this is the view. Equities bring
down your exposure. Small caps to
underweight position position in the
bond market in the intermediate part of
the yield curve which I think is
actually pretty interesting because
typically we might say well you think
there's going to be a slowdown some risk
aversion go out further along the curve
take a piece of the 10-year. It's not
what you're hearing at the moment is it
from investors.
>> There isn't a belief that the tariff
revenue can continue at a pace enough to
offset the deficit in a way to really
drive them into longerterm bond yields.
And then there's the additional point
which we didn't talk about just there
which is the international backdrop and
just how much yields globally are rising
on that 10-year and 30-year
denominations.
>> Kevin Gordon writes in, did you get that
email?
>> Yes, I did.
>> Charge swap over the past four years.
Small caps, small performance, small
gains. Russell 2000 up by about 5.7%
over the last four years. The S&P up by
more than 44. And every time we get
these moves over a period of like two
days, the excitement comes back all over
again for small caps.
>> They're cheap. They're buy. It looks
really good on a chart. That said, when
you hear some of the profit reports, you
hear Amazon having free grocery delivery
in the same day. You see some of the
technological investments that the
behemoths are making, you wonder how
much of a competitive edge some of these
smaller companies actually have, let
alone ability to uh compete in
profitability.
>> The Russell is down by 0.3% this
morning. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. We are seeing the Japanese yen
strengthen against the dollar this
morning and JGB yields are ticking
higher as traders woke up to Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson's comments on our
program yesterday that the BOJ is behind
the curve and said Japan needs to get
their inflation problem under control.
Meanwhile, Oracle is cutting jobs in its
closely watched cloud unit taking steps
to control costs amid heavy in AI
infrastructure spending. sources telling
us here at Bloomberg, impacted workers
were informed this week that their roles
were eliminated. More than 150 jobs were
cut in the Seattle area, which comes as
Oracle prepares to move its headquarters
to Nashville.
And rents on Manhattan apartment rents
rents on Manhattan apartments hit a
record in July for the fifth time in the
past 6 months. Prices surged more than
9% from a year ago, marking the second
biggest annual jump since 2008 in
Brooklyn. The median rent on new leases
climbed to $3,850,
the second highest level on record for
the burrow. That's a brief, John.
>> It's basically 4K, which is absolutely
bonkers. Yhara, thank you. And it's
going to play into the politics of this
city over the next several months given
the election taking place a year end.
>> Yeah, it already has. What's the best
way to tamp down some of these rents? Is
it to have rent control? uh where one of
the mayoral candidates currently has a
pad or is it something like building
more and how do you do that in a way uh
that people can sign off on?
>> Not a strong argument is it when you're
sitting in a rent control department
yourself.
>> It depends and I think people are trying
to redefine what it means as a middle
class family and what it means to be
affordable in this city. And I think
that that's an ongoing debate and one
that's incre increasingly fraught with
emotion.
>> It's going to be a massive massive
emotional election in this city later
this year. Up next on the program, the
morning calls plus we'll catch up with
Pier Far of New Street Research on
Apple's AI push. That conversation just
around the corner from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
It feels like a meltup already. The
market figured out and kind of agreed
with me that the economy was resilient
and we're not going to have a a
recession. And when it did that,
suddenly, boom, we went right back up.
So, the market ain't cheap. And uh the
reality is if the Fed cuts when there's
still, as you said, a lot of ambiguity
about whether it really needs a cut, uh
it doesn't really need a 50 basis point
cut, let a 25 basis point cut. But it
might get it. Edard Denny, if you had
any research, basically said this market
might get his cake and be able to eat it
too.
>> Yeah. Although it might cause some sort
of meltup that leads to a late 1990s
type of situation that tends to lead to
a meltdown. So that's the conundrum. At
what point is it appropriate stimulation
without causing some sort of exuberance
that is unwarranted? He said what Greg
Peters of PG Jim in the last week said
on this program basically word for word
the experience of last year when they
cut rates 100 basis points and rates
rose 100 basis points at the long end of
the curve basically they reduce interest
rates and financial conditions tighten
further out along the curve. He's saying
you could see a repeat of that and he's
not the only one making that claim
>> at this point. How much is that a
concern if Fed officials who are raising
some alarms about cutting so quickly? We
heard Mary Daly talking in a Wall Street
Journal uh interview yesterday that she
doesn't see the case for a 50 basis
point rate cut next month because
ultimately that would send the wrong
message to markets and isn't
appropriate. The labor market isn't
falling off a cliff. This is what we
expect to hear more of in the coming
weeks.
>> I think it's a massive disconnect.
You've been repeating this for the last
several months. It's huge. You're coming
down. You're hearing this. I hear this
all the time. We need to drop rates of
the Federal Reserve. We need to get
mortgage rates down.
What's the relationship between the two
right now? right now might not be that
strong. You could come out and cut Fed
funds. Let's say you're super
aggressive. Come out and say Vince's a
problem. I'm going 50 going 50 again, 50
again. You could see this dynamic where
the long end of the curve doesn't rally.
You're not going to see mortgage rates
come down.
>> This is the reason why uh we heard Eddie
Arden say that the bond vigilantes were
the ones enforcing law and order on the
rest of the bond market and stock market
because essentially the sheriffs of the
town are going to ultimately set that
mortgage rate which is one of the lynch
pins of this administration. So you can
expect that to be one big focus going
forward.
>> Rick Reader of Black Rockck said
recently, "This is the best time for
investing that he's ever seen." I would
say something a little bit different. I
think it's the most interesting time for
investing that I've seen in a long long
time. I find it absolutely fascinating
right now.
>> I completely agree with you and Rick
Reer might have a very good time
investing as Fed chair because evidently
he is one of the names in the uh in the
potential list.
>> Going to try and catch up with Rick
soon. Guess what? He thinks we should
cut 50 in September. So I get his
thoughts on that. Let's send some
morning calls. Our first call from
Marcus downgrading eBay to hold
highlighting its roll out of new
generative AI models. Our second call
from Bank of America lifting its price
target on Cisco to 85 pointing to
slightly better than expected results.
And finally, Mizuo raising its price
target on Nvidia to 205, saying the
company's nextG CPU is a tailwind into
26. Let's stick with tech. Apple looking
to catch up in the AI race. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the company
plans to launch a slew of smartphone
products in the coming years. Pierre
Faragu of New Street has a neutral
rating and 220 price target on shares of
Apple. Pierre joins us now for more.
Pierre, welcome to the program, sir.
Let's just start from the top. I just
want your highlevel views on what's
happening at Apple with the shift and
the big push into AI. What are they
doing? What should they be doing? And
ultimately, what aren't they doing?
>> Yeah, I think you they're doing a lot of
things, right? It's a very very long
list and I'd like to to highlight like
three three things they've announced.
The first one is they're going to reduce
Siri. So it's kind of a recognition that
like they still struggle to create like
a generative AI uh very um you know
enjoyable uh voice user interface. They
they have to rework that. The second
thing so so it's kind of an admission
that um getting into the AI era is is
difficult for Apple. Then the second one
is about all these new devices they're
talking about like having like a um a
tabletop robot having like home cameras
and and the way I read that is in the
last seven years Apple increased the
average selling price of a phone from
about $500 to $1,000. And so they've had
like really like an open uh highway to
really increase their share of spending
of affluent consumers. Um and and of
course they see the risk. They see the
risk that if if you know the smartphone
is um is not the only device, the only
personal device in an AI enabled world.
Uh they might lose share of share of
wallet. So they need to to to place bets
all around the place. And you know that
they did that in the past with a car.
They've tried for a decade to to to to
launch a car and eventually eventually
gave up. Uh and then the last one is of
course spending on uh on infrastructure
for the first time in a very very long
time. We've heard Apple making comments
about capex uh on an earnings call. Uh
and so they realize that um AI doesn't
go by itself. It requires gigantic
infrastructure and it's kind of
interesting to see that now maybe AI
like Apple in a couple of years is going
to be one of the very large spenders on
AI infrastructure. We'll have to see how
it plays out.
>> Pierre, there's a lot to unpack there.
One of the key points here is this sort
of threat, this existential threat to
the likes of Apple, that the smartphone
is on its way out as the dominant
instrument that we all engage with the
world with. I mean, this comes at the uh
iPhone's 20th anniversary, which makes
me feel very old. I'm just wondering, do
you see that as being true that the new
model is going to be something like a
tabletop robot or some sort of virtual
glasses?
>> Well, the one thing I can tell you is
that the search for the next product
um is a very very slow process at Apple.
Uh remember that Apple started working
on the iPad maybe 10 years before they
produced in large volume the iPhone and
because they couldn't get the iPad
together they ended up doing a phone and
then once they made a phone in very high
volumes the economics of doing these
products changed and they eventually
produce the iPad. So never try to bet
you know what the next product is going
to be based on what's in the what's in
the pipeline at any point in time. I
think Apple's model is we want to do
perfect products and we don't mind
working 10 years, 15 years on a product
before it gets perfect. And what you've
seen lately is the car um the the
headsets and and these products are not
working very well and Apple just keeps
going and keeps keep searching. And I
have to admit, Lisa, I don't really have
a strong opinion on what the next AI
device is going to be, but I share I I
share the concern that the the potential
for the for the smartphone and in
particular the iPhone to lose
significantly share of wallets is very
significant. So, Apple has to to be very
active on that front.
>> Do you think Pierre that the leadership
has been good at Apple? This is
something we've discussed in this
program calls for maybe some change in
leadership given that the vision has
been somewhat lackluster over the past
few years at least in the eyes of
markets.
>> This is a tough question you're asking
me.
So I would say two things. It's very
difficult to be uh in the aftershock of
a revolution like the iPhone. The iPhone
create created a new category. it was
like a completely new um uh new new
product category. Um and of course it's
very very difficult to be in the
aftershock of the founder of Apple and
to just be like the uh the enabler um
the man who helped made the the vision
the product vision and industrial
reality. And so um since you know uh
Steve Job passed away uh what we've seen
at Apple is a Tim Cook that has kept
running the machine beautifully. Uh I
don't think you could have done anything
better than what he has done in terms of
maximizing the value of products
maintaining the very high level of
product excellence etc. But now you know
does that mean Apple is in a good place?
Not necessarily. Apple is at risk. at
risk of losing share of wallet at risk
of not being able to pull together a
proper Siri and you know
would have I done better than Tim Cook
on this one probably not and uh I I
wouldn't wouldn't blame him it's just
that it's it's it's a very fastmoving
world and Apple is at is a trillion
dollar market cap in the core of
technology and technology is evolving
very fast so you know no matter how good
the management is like Apple is facing
you challenges today
>> they're in A tricky spot that's for
sure. A sticky one. Pierre, appreciate
your views. Pierre Ferugu there of New
Street Research. The latest on Apple.
Dan Ives of Wedbush came on the program
recently and said blackberry moment for
this company
>> and it comes at a time when there's a
lot of competition and there's a real
question about 20 years after the iPhone
was created. What is the new smartphone
in the 10 years ahead?
>> You've seen these headlines from the
Treasury Secretary.
>> I do. Yes.
>> Some clarity here. Just clarifying. I
didn't tell the Fed what to do. I didn't
call for the Fed to get to 1.5
percentage points lower on interest
rates. It's talking about getting to
neutral. To get to neutral, we would
need to cut by about 1.5 percentage
points. He's not calling for a series of
rate cuts. I'm pointing out that models
show neutral is lower. So verbatim, this
is what the Treasury Secretary said
yesterday. If you look at any model, it
suggests that we should probably be 150
175 basis points lower. also said on
September, I think we could go into a
series of rate cuts starting with a 50
basis point rate cut in September. So,
I'll let you explore the semantics in
just a moment. But to be fair, 3% on
neutral is basically where the Federal
Reserve is at the long-term neutral
rate. So, 150 basis points out from now.
As we've said repeatedly through this
morning, what he's saying is not
controversial at all, but he's clearly
pushing back against uh how some of this
has been framed in the last 24 hours.
This is a semantics point because he had
said originally that he is not going to
tell the Fed what to do and he's saying
he didn't tell the Fed what to do. He's
just saying that based on his models
neutral rate is about one and a half
percentage points lower than where it is
now and it would make sense to cut by 50
basis points. So parse the language. Do
what you will. That's sort of the latest
today.
>> I keep saying this. What are we even
arguing over?
>> I have no idea. Federal Reserve's on
course to cut twice this year. And
>> exactly market thinks it goes another
100 basis points next year. Stocks are
at alltime highs. Credit spreads are
super tight.
>> Exactly. crisis
>> apparently. Okay, up next, more data.
PPI and jobless claims just around the
corner. We'll catch up with Nila
Richardson of ADP.
[Music]
Couple of data points to work through
here. So, we've got a read on inflation.
We'll get that from PPI. Got a read on
the labor market. We'll get that from
jobless claims. And that data drops in
about 15 seconds time. So, going into
that data, this is what the price action
looks like. So, equities just about
unchanged all morning. Close to all-time
highs, close to all-time highs in
yesterday's session. Back-to-back record
highs on the S&P 500. In the bond
market, multimonth lows across the front
end of the curve into the belly of the
curve. Levels we have not seen come back
to April May time. Yields lower this
morning through much of this morning.
368 on a 2-year. Let's get you some
data. Here's a surprise. Big upside
surprise. PPI. PPI final demand coming
in at 0.9%.
The expectation in our survey was 0.2.
I'll get you a breakdown of PPI in just
a moment. I want to turn to jobless
claims because this is the story in the
labor market. Claims at 224 224,000 the
estimate was 225. Previous number a
revised 227. So compare and contrast
what's happening here in the labor
market. That data looks okay to what's
happening with inflation. PPI's just
come in much much stronger than
anticipated. At least off the back of
that you're seeing a stronger dollar. I
imagine we're seeing an unwind in the
bond market a little bit and we do.
Yields up at the front end of the curve
by four basis points on twos up by a
single basis point on tens.
>> It raises a question why would the Fed
cut rates if they do see signs of
inflation and we have to look at the
components to understand what goes into
core PCE because that has been a key
consideration. Nonetheless, just on the
headline level, the fact that X food and
energy PPI rose 3.7%
year-over-year versus the expectation of
3%. You're seeing that across the board
when you look at uh even X food and
energy on a month-over-month 0.6% versus
the expectation of 0.2% as you were
saying. This just raises a question.
Have we fully indicated what kind of
inflationary impulse there would be from
tariffs given the fact that some of the
goods are now coming in with those
tariff prices in a way that they could
have avoided with pre-orders and
inventory maybe a month ago.
>> Equities pulling back by about a third
of 1% on the S&P 500 in response to this
economic data. Labour markets okay based
on jobless claims. We can talk about
continuing claims in a moment, but it's
really PPI driving this price action.
And after two days of outperformance on
the Russell, what happens? We're down
about 1 percentage point at the moment
on Russell futures in the bond market.
Not seeing a major move. I've got to say
that this is not a big move relative to
the rally we've seen at a 2-year. If you
think the two years come down by, let's
call it 30 basis points over the past
few weeks. Big move after payrolls and
yet still you get a hot print on PPI,
we're only about three basis points
higher on the session.
>> So, how much is this a market that's
looking at potential political influence
in the Federal Reserve? How much is this
looking at a Fed that is willing to look
through any firming up of inflation in
the short term and how much is the
specific components? Again, I keep going
back to that because the components are
important. When I saw the core CPI on
Tuesday, I thought, "Oh, this is a
concern." And then you look at the
components and they're more volatile so
people could dismiss them here. Are
people able to dismiss it in the same
way or is there something else at play?
To your point, John, the fact that
you're not seeing that much of a move at
the front end, but you're also not
seeing that much of a move at the long
end doesn't indicate that this is a
market that thinks that this is going to
be a protracted inflationary push that's
going to uh really affect the Fed's
policy and frankly uh bond policy going
forward.
>> With us around the table, Nila
Richardson of ADP just to break down
where we are in the economy. Nila, let's
start with not just the data this
morning, but the setup at the moment as
you look across your dashboard, what do
you see?
Well, what we're seeing is an economy
that continues to chug along. Um, hiring
momentum has slowed. I think that's
clear. Uh, there's been some stasis in
the labor market. But overall, when you
look at the things that I look at, like,
are companies cutting hours? No. Are
wages plummeting? No. Um, actually,
they're they're staying pretty
wellformed and really really steady. And
so even though we're seeing a a slowdown
in the momentum, the underpinninging of
the labor market continues to be solid
enough to support consumer spending.
Now, we'll get retail sales out in a
bit. We'll get some confidence data out
in a bit. This inflation surprise is
something that should be considered with
a whole bunch of other data that was
leading up to this point showing no uh
smoking gun when it came to tariffs and
inflation. So the big picture is it's an
economy that continues to perform. It's
just not as dynamic as we're used to
seeing.
>> Ira Jersey of Bloomberg Intelligence is
just working through the details of that
PPI report. I'm going to cross over to
him in just a moment just to come to you
just quickly on what we're seeing with
inflation. Is it too early to draw
conclusions here based on the data we've
had so far? And will it be too early at
Jackson Hole, too early at the next Fed
meeting? some conclusions are going to
have to be drawn because decisions have
to be made, but it's really going to be
a matter of perspective. So those
components, as Lisa mentioned, of the
PPI is going are going to be so
important because when we looked at the
CPI, the inflation triggers were all in
the services. It wasn't like the goods
sector was uh screaming inflation. Those
final goods aren't showing it yet, at
least yet. um those intermediate goods,
the wholesale goods, that's where a
tariff could bite in the, you know, as
the goods are being built and formed.
And we might see that in the wholesale
prices and the producer prices and
increase. So maybe this is the first
time, maybe it's just a one-off. We
won't know, but we have to look at the
complete complexion of the economy, at
least some people do, in order to make
those rate decisions next month.
>> We're trying to do that right now. We
can do that with Ira Jersey of Bloomberg
Intelligence. you've been looking
through the details, sir. What stands
out to you? What's behind this big
upside surprise this morning?
>> Yeah. So, so it's it's not necessarily
good sector that's driving a lot of
this. So, you saw a big increase in uh
in the services uh PPI here with a 1.1
uh% increase month-on-month. Um that was
negative a little bit last month. So, so
you had this big shift toward uh towards
services increasing in particular trade.
So some of that could be from uh you
know import prices if you think about
the pass through from um from you know
shipping and things like that that are
going to be goods that are going to be
tariffed. Um so maybe this is suggesting
that there might be a little bit of
margin contraction and uh um like you
mentioned not not a huge move in the
front end of the bond market but it's
still five basis points from where we
were right before the uh right before we
received the number. Um I I think retail
sales tomorrow will wind up probably
being even a little bit more important
to the bond market than than this
particular number. Um but but certainly
you know 50 basis point move in
September might be taken off the table
with uh with worries about inflation uh
ticking up a little bit here.
>> It's not just that IRA and I'm glad that
you broke it down and understood that to
see that it's coming from services kind
of mimics what we saw in the CPI. It's
also the initial jobless claims coming
in at the sumalent 224,000. Even
continuing claims came in a touch. These
are the people who keep receiving
unemployment benefits. Where is the
impetus for the Federal Reserve to need
some sort of emergency rate cut given
the fact that this doesn't seem to point
to any kind of massive dislocation in
the labor market?
>> Yeah, keep in mind with the claims
numbers have been relatively steady for
years now. And uh but so remember that's
only one side of the equation, right?
That's the firing side. So it's really
how many new people are entering the
workforce and are going to be uh then
hired by by firms too because at at this
kind of pace you'd wind up with you know
pretty massive layoffs actually um if if
there's not someone hired on the other
side of those uh of those initial
jobless claims. Um so and you have seen
a slowing in that. So it has to be the
job market, right? the the the Fed to
cut certainly to cut more than 25 basis
points in September um would require a
really disastrous kind of non-farm
payroll number I think. Um, now that
being said, just the slowdown in the
hiring process with without consumer
prices ticking up quite a lot. Um, you
know, that that could mean that hey, the
the Fed could ease just a little bit to
kind of plate the market, make sure that
you the job market doesn't completely
fall out of bed. And I suspect that
that's the thinking of those members
like, you know, Governor Wallers and
Bowman who have seen this slowing in in
the job market and are concerned that it
could get worse. So, let's be a little
bit proactive here. Now that being said,
do they have to do that? I don't think
so. Like we we had already always had
pencled in based on our forecasts and
October as the first rate cut, but
realistically September versus October,
it's not going to matter that much to,
you know, 10-year Treasury yields quite
frankly.
>> Ira, just before you go, I've just got a
brief question, and it's to build on
what Lisa and I were talking about, the
front end of the curve. Why is this
market looking through firmer services
inflation both in CPI and PPI this
morning? Why are we only up by a basis
point or two? If you told me these
numbers earlier on this morning, I might
have guessed, you know what, might be up
double figures. Double b double figure
basis points off this, maybe up 10 basis
points, 11, I don't know, but not a
single basis point.
>> Yeah. Well, well, I think that the the
CPI report wasn't uh wasn't nearly as
bad as I think the market thought. And
and the the market is certainly pricing
in for a you know, modest easing of
monetary policy over the next couple of
uh over the next couple of quarters. And
you know and again like as long as you
wind up having a slowdown in the economy
that the Fed is going to try to to
rightsize things and there is this idea
that within the market and I've talked
to a lot of market participants about
this where is neutral right I actually
think we're pretty close to the neutral
rate but a lot of people disagree with
me and believe that the neutral rate is
closer to two or two and a half which is
where headline inflation more or less is
right now on a on a CPI basis. So, so
people do think that that rates are
still restrictive. Again, I'm not as
convinced of that, but that's where the
market is and that's why the market
thinks that the Fed is going to be
cutting rates uh in in the very near
future.
>> Don't fight the market. It's always the
lesson. Thank you, sir. Ara Jersey there
of Bloomberg Intelligence breaking this
down. Lisa services again
>> again firmer.
>> This isn't necessarily a good thing for
the Federal Reserve because typically
services is something that's more
discretionary and tends to be uh more
funible. It raises this question about
where the weakness is coming from. Nila,
I have to say the ADP reports taken on a
lot more import recently, especially
with some of the questions around the
BLS. And I just wonder what kind of
hiring you see in services uh and wage
increases to edify the sense that that's
an area that's actually been benefiting
of late. You know, I think the the issue
with the labor market is that the
structural and the cyclical are kind of
colliding in this moment because we are
still in a labor market that's being
impacted by the pandemic. We're being
impacted by an aging workforce. We're
still being impacted by the great
resignation, which means the turnover,
that dynamism is missing in today's
labor market. So, when you look at
something like services, what are you
seeing? Well, first of all, you're
seeing uh certain pockets of services
slow down tremendously. We saw a dip
over the summer. Um it's rebounded
according to our data in the last month.
It new entrance into this market is it's
very slow. If you talk to any parent of
a college age student, it is my student
is still looking for a job even though
they just graduated. If you look at ADP
data, if you don't like the anecdotal,
you want to look at the hard data, we
pay over 25 million workers in the
United States. And what we're seeing is
that new higher pay hasn't budged from
$18 an hour for the median in more than
13 months. So there is a a stagnant part
of this labor market when it comes to uh
bringing onboarding new people that's
going to be reflected in productivity
numbers and it really is going to impact
services more than goods. good sector,
that talent tends to be more
specialized, uh, fewer new hires, less
affected by the people dynamics that
underpin the later labor market.
>> Can I ask you a provocative question? Is
the new BLS chief good for business,
which I think is what Lisa was trying to
ask. Is the new BLS chief good for
business over at ADP?
>> Is well, until they're confirmed, we
won't know. But what I can tell you
what's good for business is good data.
Lita Richardson of ADP.
>> Very diplomatic.
>> Thank you. I expected it to be
diplomatic.
>> It was very well done.
>> That was basically what you were getting
at.
>> Well, it just, you know,
>> we'll be looking to ADP a little bit.
>> I mean, that's what people are saying is
ADP is going to matter that much more
because it isn't changing its uh its
methodology in any capacity. And they're
increasing questions around BLS.
>> Stocks are down. We're down by about
0.4% on the S&P. Not trying to get
anyone in trouble. The NASDAQ 100's down
by about.5%.
Big move lower on the Russell. We're
down by 1.3. Again, just to go back to
the bond market. So big upside surprise
on PPI and yet bond yields are higher by
just two basis points at the front end
of the curve. Irish as he said it don't
fight the market. This the market price
and then cuts one way. We're moving
lower. That's the view of the market at
the moment
>> and it seems like Fed officials are on
board with that. When you look at the
components though I don't understand how
we're looking through services inflation
to such a great degree especially if it
is edified. It really puts more import
on tomorrow's retail sales. If you see
the strength that Adicha Bahave of Bank
of America was talking about that
they're seeing in their Bank of America
survey. Do you get the same sort of
confidence that this is really just a
one-time kind of head fake and that the
labor market report really was the real
story?
>> We've said it on repeat and I know it's
a bit of a copout, but it's just how we
feel. Jury's still out. Got to wait for
the data and it's so so hard to draw
conclusions about where we are.
>> Anyone who says that they know the
answer to that. I I would like to see
what they eat at night, but you know, I
think a lot of people would agree.
>> Let's get you an update on stories were
thinking of something different. I know
you were. Okay. All right. Let's get
your Bloomberg brief with Yhara An. Hey,
Yhara. Hi, John. Recapping the latest
economic data, July PPI coming in hotter
than expected at 9/10en of a percent,
way above estimates for an increase of
2/10en of 1%. Core PPI also coming in
well above expectations. Meanwhile,
224,000 people filing for jobless claims
benefits in the week ending August 9th.
That's just 1,000 less than estimates.
Meanwhile, on to Russia as President
Trump prepares to meet with Putin
tomorrow. Trump warning he would impose
very severe consequences if the Russian
president does not agree to a ceasefire
with Ukraine. He said he hoped to use
the meeting in Alaska to set up a quick
second meeting with both Putin and
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zalinski.
And Amazon plans to offer sameday
grocery delivery in 2300 cities by the
end of the year, more than doubling the
current number. It says customers will
be able to order perishable items
alongside frozen foods and household
goods. The same day, grocery delivery
service will be free in most cities for
Amazon Prime subscribers on orders over
$25. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead and the rest of the week going
into the weekend. Plus, we'll speak to
Scott Croner of City after lifting his
year-end price target for the S&P 500.
All of that still to come live from New
York. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
There doesn't need to be a huge pick up
in inflation, but the point that we've
been making is that even X of the tariff
shock, the core PC, headline PC probably
stuck around 2 1/2%. And that's the
concern that we have for Fed policy. We
think they're meaningfully away from
target and even further away in the
other direction than they were before
the pandemic. We're being hit by so many
supply shocks right now that it makes
forecasting very difficult.
>> Dichave of Bank of America weighing in
on the inflation data and the labor
market data as well. He still believes
this Fed won't be cutting interest rates
through the rest of 2025. PPI just
months ago coming in firmer than
expected. The pass through to PCE though
may be fairly limited and unchanged in
the minds of a lot of people on Wall
Street. yet still equities down by
4/10en of 1% on the S&P and bond yields
that little bit higher at the front end
of the curve.
>> Looking at the breakdown right now, what
stands out to me is we're paying more
for our bundling. When people want
entertainment, all of those price
increases from Disney and Hulu and uh
Paramount that's going into cable
satellite subscriber services and
wireless telecommunication services,
bundled wire telecommunication services,
all going up significantly. And I
wonder, you know, this speaks to the
moment we're in.
>> Bills are getting more expensive.
>> Yeah. And it just
>> I love that rant.
>> I I think that this like basically is
the embodiment of that rant is that that
is single-handedly it's not
single-handedly at all, but it's part of
the reason why.
>> Go after them. You got some more time.
Just keep going.
>> I mean, look, to me, I just I think that
it's notable to mention that 4.2% of an
increase in costs for cable satellite
subscriber services. I think that's a
great point.
>> You know, I'm on board. Let's get those
prices down. Hulu.
>> Yeah, it's like the sports. You're
you're annoyed about the sports. Every
time I get that email from Hulu and it's
like it's gone up again,
>> but you pay it.
>> Yeah, unfortunately. Yeah.
>> Here we go. That's factoring into this.
>> Stocks are down this morning on the S&P
retreating following that PPI print with
your movers, your morning movers. Here's
Danny Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Here's one of the companies
that's eating higher costs. It is
Tapestry and shares plunging in the
pre-market down 12%. Their outlook
incorporated a new tariff hit that
appears to be about 60 cents eating into
their EPS. And with that new
information, the market incorporating
that into the price with a weaker
outlook of about 4% growth for their
fiscal year. Meanwhile, deer also under
pressure. It's both supply and demand. A
record corn harvest plus demand looking
a little bit more sketchy with some of
the tariff and trade concerns seeping
in. So, they cut their outlook shares
down 6% more than that this morning.
Meanwhile, space companies getting a
lift. Uh they were getting a lift, but
just in a sign of how much that PPI
number changed things around. Trump had
signed an executive order allowing them
to make it easier to launch rockets. All
of these were up about 2%. PostP PPI
report, they are down at least a third
of a percent. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for the update and the market reaction
there. Just the day ahead for you going
into the weekend, 1 p.m. Eastern time,
President Trump delivers remarks into
tomorrow, Friday, the president of the
United States and the Russian President
Vladimir Putin meeting in Alaska. Plus,
retail sales and um consumer sentiment.
If you want a sneak peek of next week,
Tuesday, Home Depot earnings, Wednesday,
Fed minutes plus results from Target.
Thursday, Walmart results. And then
we've got Jackson Hole in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, the Federal Reserve. And your
get together retail and focus though,
big one going into that.
>> Does it edify this sense of strength
that we've seen currently at least in
PPI with travel and entertainment taking
such a big portion of some of that
increase? I'm pleased to say we've got
some time now to break down a recent
call from Cityroup and Scott Croner
bullish on the S&P 500 raising its price
target to 6600. Scott joins us now for
more. Scott, welcome to the program,
sir. Great to get a few minutes with
you. Just walk us through what's behind
the upgrade over the past week,
particularly when it follows that
dreadful payrolls print from a few
Fridays ago.
>> Yeah, Jonathan, great seeing you. Hi,
Lisa as well. Um, so look at I I think
it's about fundamentals and earnings,
right? So what we've been navigating for
several months now has been, you know,
things such as tariff concerns, um,
ongoing concern regarding the state of
the consumer. We can perhaps come back
to that in terms of services versus
goods, but all told, what's unfolded
here is that we went into the Q2
reporting period with an expectation
that yeah, we'd see a normal positive
surprise. Um, and we got a little bit
more than that. What we got also was a
little bit more confidence that the
worst case around tariffs is probably
mostly behind us at this point and going
forward it does look in our opinion that
some of the uh tax reform measures of
the recent budget bill will play through
in a positive sense. So, generally
speaking, what we're looking at here is
a really, really solid um earnings
backdrop for the S&P 500 that we think
persists in the back half of the year
and has legs to run into 2026 as well.
>> Scott, your bull case is 7,200. What
would you have to see to make that your
base case?
>> Yeah. So, Lisa, this is where we're
going to get back to the topic dour in
terms of where the Fed's living here. So
I what I would say is that um when you
look at the setup right now our work is
that you know literally half of the uh
the S&P market cap is associated with
this AI influence. Okay. You have the
other half though that's going to be
more traditionally economic sensitive
and where a lot of the metrics that
we're discussing today are going to come
into play. To get to that 7,200, what
you need is a massive Goldilocks
environment where you have ongoing um
persistence in economic activity, an
okay labor market, the Fed in position
to ease because inflation's coming down,
right? And and that I think is the bull
case for US equities. Some of it has
begun to get priced in. I think that's
what we're looking at with this the more
recent move in US equities. But to get
to that that massive meltup mode, that's
in our view where you have to get.
Scott, a lot of people are saying things
like, "I'm seeing complacency. I'm
worried about narrow breadth and
concentration." Scott, we've heard those
worries for the last decade or so. Are
they valid this time around?
>> You know, I I we always get concerned
like we pointed out in our in our recent
note that, you know, our sentiment
index, the Levich index is is clearly in
euphoria. Um and so we have to be
attuned to that. What we pointed out
though and this is I think the topic
dour on this on this on this notion of
where sentiment lives is that
historically when you're in these
euphoric readings you tend to see a
bigger volatility impact. So as we go
forward from here given where valuations
are given where a lot of the noise
around Fed trajectory um and other
policy measures are you need to see this
as I kind of mentioned threading the
needle dynamic. But what ends up
happening is that anything that appears
to distort that which may be the PPI
data today is going to trigger that bit
bit of volatility response. We're going
to fall back and say got it understand
there going to be areas here where we
have to be paying attention from a macro
perspective. But again I'm going to fall
back on the fundamental trajectory here
is where we're going to uh you know
really use as our guiding light and I
think the setup is increasingly
constructive for the big chunk of the uh
S&P 500 in particular. Scott, appreciate
it. Thanks for the update. Thanks for
jumping on before the opening bow. Scott
Croner there of City. That opening bow
about 35 minutes away. Pulling back from
alltime highs in the equity market
having a rethink about inflation in
America. I imagine we'll have a few
rethinks going into that Federal Reserve
meeting about a month or so away. Live
from New York. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Day seven at the Cincinnati Open. World
number one Yanick S had to beat the Rain
and Adrien Manorino to punch his ticket
into his fifth quarterfinal of the
season. The defending champion closing
out the win in the second set breaker
after just under 2 hours on court. And
don't forget, you can watch all the
action live daily on Tennis Channel.
[Music]